---
title: "Industrial Rumpswabbery"
date: "2018-12-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15958"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15958"
---

Way back in the before times, when you got news and opinion from TV,
newspapers, and magazines, you just accepted the authority of the
source. If you were a liberal, you were required to swear oaths about
the objectivity and integrity of the news media. If you were a normal
person, you understood that all of it was biased. Alternative sources of
information, however, were thin on the ground. If you were lucky, your
city still had a paper run by normal people, like the Detroit Free Press
or Manchester Union Leader.

Otherwise, normal people had to read their local paper or the news
magazines with an eye for the bias. Some columnists made a career out of
being lefty wackos, even getting a national reputation for it. [Eleanor
Clift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eleanor_Clift) was a proto-cat lady
in the 1990’s, as a barking at the moon lefty for Newsweek. The
late [John
McLaughin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_McLaughlin_Group) would
have her on as a regular, mostly because she was such a loon. In the
Clinton years he nicknamed her Eleanor Rodham Clift because she was such
a ridiculous Clinton rumpswab.

The thing is though, the columnists were always people who had spent a
long apprenticeship in the news business. They started out as local
reporters for local papers and then advanced onto bigger stories at
bigger outlets. The typical newspaper columnist was a middle-aged man
who had been a reporter for a couple of decades. Every city paper had a
columnist who used to cover city hall, until he got bumped up to writing
polemics about the people in city hall. That was his expertise.

Even TV people had been in the business for a long time. Eleanor Clift
would argue with Pat Buchanan about politics. Both had served as
reporters covering campaigns, until they got columns. Their TV persona
was as a columnist with expertise covering politics as a reporter for
decades. They would salt their opinions with references to events they
covered. That was their basis of authority. Their expertise was from
long experience reporting on politics at all levels. They were
professional reporters.

Whatever one wants to say for the old model of the journalism career,
there was a winnowing process to filter out the extremely stupid and
dishonest. The [Der Spiegel
scandal](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15894) is mostly due to hiring
a charismatic greenhorn into a prominent position, without having put
him through an apprenticeship. The odds are the people who hired him had
never been local reporters or had to edit copy for a small publication.
Like Claas Relotius, they popped out of good schools and the right
families into elite media.

This is, of course, the problem faced by all the media now. For example,
[this
post](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2018/12/whats-behind-steve-mnuchins-press-release/578968/)
in The Atlantic is supposed to be expert speculation about the Treasury
Secretary’s maneuverings in response to the bear market. The Atlantic is
a prestige publication of the ruling class that is supposed to provide
informed opinion and commentary. The post, however, does not rise to the
level of daydreaming. Like everything you see in the prestige media
these days, it is pointless drivel written by an airhead.

The authoress is someone named [Annie
Lowrey](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annie_Lowrey). A quick search
reveals she reports on politics and economic policy for The Atlantic
magazine. She also went to Harvard. More importantly, she is married to
Ezra Klein. He went to UCLA. Nepotism is nothing new in the media, but
shouldn’t she be covering something for which she has some
qualifications, like the Westminster Dog Show? You do not have to know
anything to report about a dog show. She just must like dogs and being
around gay men.

Of course, it raises an obvious question, how in the hell are these
people getting into Harvard? It is not hard to see why the Asians are
angry about admissions. They may lack social skills, but they can do
math. Ezra Klein appears to have no useful skills. If he is, as they
claim, a top-1% intellect, he has yet to display a hint of it in his
career as a mover and shaker in the media. His career, according to [his
bio](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ezra_Klein), is devoid of anything
that would prepare one for having an opinion anyone should consider.

It is not just that these two have zero useful experience. It is also
that they raced ahead to take up senior positions, decades before it was
normal. In the old system, Ezra Klein would have just landed a job with
a major daily, covering politics. In a couple of decades, he could
expect to get his own column, where he could opine about the people he
covered for decades. In other words, the major media is now populated
with people who know nothing useful and have not had the time to observe
people who know things.

This is a familiar rant, of course, but the puzzle is how the mass media
has evolved into a weird playground for the stupid children of rich
people. One clue is the guy who runs The Atlantic, Jeffrey Goldberg. He
is a serious guy who used to take pleasure in torturing Palestinians on
behalf of his people. [No
kidding](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/mj-rosenberg/the-evolution-of-jeff-gol_b_562212.html).
His vice, however, is he likes to be surrounded by shiksas and toadies,
so The Atlantic is now festooned with silly girls from good schools and
young men fond of hearing Goldberg’s IDF stories.

What seems to be happening is the modern mass media selects for the
ability to ingratiate oneself with the powerful. Ezra Klein has a
reputation for being a world-class rumpswab, but also a ruthless
courtier, who would stab his mother in the neck to gain favor with the
boss.  That is how he rose so quickly in the Washington media ranks and
why he is now installed in a seven-figure job at a media outlet with no
customers. His wife knows how to play on her boss’s vanity and
inclinations.

The old joke about the new economy is you cannot have society based on
everyone selling each other insurance. The modern mass media is trying
to build a business model around people who wash each other’s balls. A
media ball washer writes a column and the other ball washers tweet about
it. The same is true when one of them writes a book. The ball washers
slobber all over it, claiming it is the greatest book since the Bible.
It is no wonder that the rest of us are slowly tuning out or turning to
alternative media.
