---
title: "Life After The Afterlife"
date: "2018-01-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12645"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12645"
---

Is it possible for humans to have a transcendent moral code if they no
longer believe in an afterlife? Some Christians today argue that it is
impossible to have any sort of morality without belief in Christ, but
that is largely a self-serving claim. God’s role in the affairs of man,
in the Christian context, is primarily as the ruler of Heaven. Those,
who live a moral life, a Christian life, will spend eternity in Heaven.
The people who live wicked lives, will be condemned to an eternity out
of the sight of God.

All of the word’s great religions have an afterlife. The Abrahamic
faiths, of course, all share a similar conception of Heaven and Hell,
with God ruling the former and Satan ruling the latter. Eastern
religions have more esoteric approaches. Buddhists believe in a cycle of
death and rebirth. Through eventual enlightenment, they hope to escape
this and achieve Nirvana, an end to suffering. Hindus believe that
through knowledge and wisdom, you can achieve a liberation of the soul
in the afterlife.

The conception of an afterlife as a reward and an escape from human
suffering is relatively new to humanity. The Greeks did not have an
afterlife. A Greek lived his life so he would be remembered. Maybe his
shade would end up in Hades, but that was not much of a reward. The
morality of the Greeks assumed that punishment for angering the gods
happened in this life. Sacrifices to the gods were all about getting
good fortune now, not after death.

The Egyptians had an afterlife, but it was only for the elite. Given
their habit of burying servants with the dead, the afterlife could also
include the attendants. Like the great man’s other possessions buried
with him, it was assumed he would need some slaves and servants once he
entered the afterlife. It does not appear that this conception of an
afterlife spawned a corresponding moral code. It was not a reward for a
life lived well, but a reward for having been born to the right station
in life.

It is largely believed that the people who gave mankind the concept of
an afterlife, one open to everyone who lived righteously, were the
Zoroastrians. They believed those who lived on the side of good spent
the after life in the House of Song, which they also called the Abode of
Light. The Zoroastrians taught that everyone, who followed a proper
code, could live forever and that the soul mattered. Those who sided
with evil in this life would be condemned to an eternity of darkness and
torment.

The Zoroastrians gave us the concept of God and Satan. Ahura Mazda is
the creator of the world and father of the two spirits, Spenta Mainyu
and Angra Mainyu. The former is the “good” spirit, the latter, is the
destructive and evil one. This conflict between good and evil is central
to Zoroastrianism and provided the foundation of their moral philosophy.
It is also the first known example of a religion basing a moral code on
something beyond the here and now.

The Jews picked this up from their time in captivity. The Pentateuch has
no reference to Satan, but the Book of Job, written much later, has Old
Scratch. In Daniel, Heaven and Hell appear for the first time. Given the
history of the Jewish people at this time, it is most likely that they
borrowed these concepts from the Zoroastrians. The Satan that Jesus
describes is pretty much the Zoroastrian Angra Mainyu. Christian
morality is entirely built on the concept of the battle between good and
evil.

This is why Nietzsche *blamed* the Zoroastrians for morality. He and
most Europeans scholars of the age were familiar with Zoroastrianism and
understood its influence on the Abrahamic religions. *Thus Spake
Zarathustra* is his effort to turn Zoroastrian moral philosophy on its
head. Rather than an eternity of good versus evil, he has a re-imagined
Zarathustra discover his error and correct the mistake. Nietzsche is a
tough read, but the implication is there can be no morality without God.

The question for our age is can we maintain a moral code when no one
believes in God or an afterlife? This is clearly something our betters
struggle with, even though they do not think of it in these terms. The
New Religion that progressives are trying to impose upon us has no
explicit god or eternal reward for the faithful. Instead, they are
forced to conjure mystical stand-ins like the “tides of history”. Even
their appeals to science are really just appeals to an unnamed and
mystical deity.

Right wing progressives suffer from the same dilemma. It is not an
accident that you never hear conservative pundits make explicit appeals
to Christian morals or even Jewish morality. Instead, they argue that
Donald Trump is immoral because he vexes the shade of Ronald Reagan or
Bill Buckley. They may not come out and call these guys deities, but
they certainly treat them as prophets. Their gods are the people from
the past who fit their current needs.

This is the root of our current cultural troubles. For example, on whose
authority was racism made a mortal sin? If it is, then what? From whom
do you ask forgiveness? If the racist and the anti-racist molder in the
same ground together after death, what is the point of being a devout
anti-racist? Perhaps that’s the real reason they are digging up
Confederate soldiers. They lack an afterlife beyond the graveyard, so
that will be their heaven and only the righteous will be buried.

Now, it does not follow that we are condemned to an age of coercion. The
Greeks got along fine without worrying about the afterlife. They did
have a set of gods, who had to be mollified. Otherwise, bad things would
happen to man in *this* life. Given the shape of our nature cults and
the fanaticism of our secular elites, it is clear that we have not
evolved past the point of needing a transcendent morality. That suggests
some new deity will replace the Christian god..

Alternatively, the recent efforts to fashion a civic religion will fail
as it lacks the necessary moral authority to induce voluntary
compliance. The Christianity that flowered in the Middle Ages may be on
the ropes, but something new will surely spring from its ruins. Perhaps
the flood of Islam into the West is part of that process. The soul
abhors a vacuum. Maybe we are on the edge of a great religious
experiment, like that which birthed Zoroastrianism.
