---
title: "March For Our Masters"
date: "2018-03-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13305"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13305"
---

When I was a kid, I wondered why the people in the Soviet Union just put
up with being ruled by the commies. Even discounting for the propaganda,
the evidence was clear that Russia was remarkably poorer than the West.
There were too many stories from defectors about how Western goods were
smuggled into the Iron Curtain countries to claim they did not know it.
Even if that did not matter, the thuggery should have pushed people into
revolt, but it never happened.

Later in life, I got to know an Iranian guy. Iranians with some money
would get their kids student visas in Europe and then they would come to
the US. He had served in the Iranian army as a conscript during the
Iran-Iraq War. He told me a story about how they cleared a minefield
near Basra. They asked for volunteers from the Revolutionary Guard, who
then ran through the field exploding the mines so the unit could follow
them through the field.

Over the years, I have met other people who had lived in totalitarian
countries or in the more fanatical Muslim ones. They always have these
sorts of stories. Most of the time they are not as colorful as the one
my Persian friend told me, but they usually have the same sort of matter
of fact way of telling them. I always get the sense that the people
telling the story don’t think these events are all that interesting, but
its better than talking about the weather or what they had for lunch
last week.

The question that always comes to mind, is whether ideological societies
produce an excess of fanatics or evolve to use them like an energy
source. The Bolsheviks figured out quickly that communist economics were
nonsense. There was no amount of tinkering to make it work, but the
supply of true believers made it possible to keep the system running,
long after the people in charge knew it was hopeless. Without the
zealots, the Soviet system would have collapsed after Stalin died.

The same thing is true of the Iranian theocracy. The energy of the
revolution kept it going through the difficult early years, but that
energy is long gone. The students who sacked the American embassy are in
their late fifties and early sixties now. Many died in the Iraq War. The
regime itself long ago descended into petty corruption. Still, there are
plenty of fanatics willing to spy on a neighbor, in the name of the
revolution. The supply of zealots is never exhausted.

When I look at what is happening with the latest round of gun grabbing
in America, I wonder if we are simply overflowing with rogue fanatics,
looking for a cause, or is the cultural revolution creating them, like
batteries to fuel their latest push to slam the cage door on us? When
you see [bizarre posts like
this](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/arts-and-entertainment/wp/2018/03/25/emma-gonzalez-and-the-wordless-act-that-moved-a-nation/?utm_term=.293db96c5490)
from old men of the revolution, slobbering over the children now running
around promising more revolution, the causal relationship is not all
that obvious. It is a snake eating its tail.

Of course, these public events are not organic or spontaneous. [Daniel
Greenfield](https://sultanknish.blogspot.com/2018/03/who-runs-march-for-our-lives.html)
has tracked down the money and it is clear this latest spasm of gun
grabbing is financed by the same radical ideologues behind the Womyn’s
March last year. Still, are these people financing the new fanatics
because they need them or are the fanatics just always there, ready to
run into the nearest minefield? Maybe natural selection plays some role,
where the rewards for zealotry slowly increases the supply each
generation.

I wonder what people in Iran or maybe Russia think about this stuff.
There are plenty of people in Eastern Europe, who lived through the
Soviets, so they probably recognize these organized propaganda riots.
Instead of the state marching the children off to reeducation camps to
train for the next parade, the camps are sponsored by Global Mega Corp
and the parade is financed by a [sports
team](http://www.breitbart.com/sports/2018/03/24/new-england-patriots-bob-kraft-lent-team-plane-parkland-families-march-transport-request-gabby-giffords-mark-kelly/).
Is the fact the system is run by corporate ideologues rather, than
religious or political ideologues a big difference?

[Theodore Dalrymple famously
said](http://archive.frontpagemag.com/readArticle.aspx?ARTID=7445) that
communist propaganda was intended to humiliate and degrade the people
repeating it in public. That may be true and it may simply have been a
byproduct. Similarly, ideological authoritarianism like we see in
America and Iran, may not set out to create fanatics, but it is a
natural result. The zealotry that animated the regime in the early
stages, becomes its sole purpose. It lives to create a new generation of
fanatics, who push aside the old ones and start the process all over
again.

In this regard, radicalism is like a pathogen. If it kills the host too
quickly, it can not spread to new hosts, but it must always spread to
new hosts. This is why radicals, since the French Revolution, have
obsessed over children. The sight of ridiculous twinks like David Hogg
promising a revolutionary bloodbath fills the Boomer radicals with joy,
as they know the disease has been transmitted to the next generation.
The radical pathos lives on, even as it kills the host. Radicalism feeds
on the cancer of zealotry, until it kills the host society.

That gets back to where we started. Most Americans know the people
behind the weekend’s orchestrated proselytizing are crazy. Parading
children out to lecture the adults is creepy and weird. The last ten
years has been an endless freak show of degeneracy and depravity. Yet,
the public goes along with it. Those who speak out against it are hurled
into the void, and the so-called conservatives mutter about hypocrisy,
but otherwise, the radical orgy of depravity staggers on undeterred. The
nut-job army serves its purpose.
