---
title: "Open the Door"
date: "2018-09-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15057"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15057"
---

On the way back from Europe, there was a woman on the plane, who
embodied pretty much all that had gone wrong with women in the West. She
was 30-ish and as we were boarding, she found that the overhead bins
were full in the front. She had no place to put her three carry-on
items. Of course, if she had been more punctual, this would not have
been a problem, but there she was in the aisle, throwing a tantrum,
demanding the cabin crew rush to her aid. She managed to hold up the
boarding process for ten minutes.

I was struck by the sense of entitlement. It was not because she was a
beautiful woman who knew all men desire her either. She was quite plain.
Further, the women who work for Wow airlines are stunningly gorgeous.
More important, they like being women that are stunningly gorgeous. To
be blunt about it, the contrast between the beautiful Icelandic women
and this American feminist underscored the fact that feminism is about
dining out on appetizer looks. It is bland women demanding unearned
attention from men.

Watching this unfold in front of me, I started to think a big part of
what makes American women so unpleasant now is that they are haunted by
this reality. Not so much that they are average looking, but that they
know the feminist lunacy in their heads is not true and that the old
realities of sex roles are forever realities. If they were polite and
decent, minding their own business as feminists, no one would pay any
attention to them. The result would be a class of barren spinsters that
live on the local university campus.

At least with nuns, they have their faith in God and whatever else
happens in the nunnery, to give them purpose in their lives. There is an
upfront acceptance of their separation from the normal life of mankind.
The nun stops being a woman in the conventional sense, so she stops
expecting to be treated as a woman. As a result, most nuns I have met
are stern about their duties, but otherwise pleasant people. It is a
role for them that has well defined rules that addresses the sexual, as
well as the social dynamics of life.

Feminists are always in the center of a great mental conflict between
what they wish were true about the world and the ongoing reality around
them. The woman in the aisle, while surrounded by shield maidens of the
first order, was a rage of internal conflict. Her eyes kept darting
around the cabin, as she was clearly uncomfortable. The feminist sense
of entitlement forced her to make demands on everyone, while her
biological instinct was to look for a man to come her rescue. Instead,
she was rescued by women from the past.

The irrationality of the feminist, the tantrum aspect to it, cannot be
discussed in the mass media, but that is the weak point of it. Feminism
is, in many ways, someone choosing to live in the backyard, rather than
the house, because they are nursing a grudge against the person who made
the house for them. Instead of being good at the thing they can be good
at, like being a wife and mother, they choose to be terrible at
something no one wants, and no society has ever needed. Feminism is the
wrath of the unloved and unwanted woman.

That really is the shame of it. I have trod this earth for a long time,
and I have yet to hear a man say, “The trouble is we have too many good
women from which to choose.” No man thinks there is a glut of good
mothers or women who make excellent wives. It is the complete opposite.
Most men lament the dire shortage of women they would want to have as a
wife or the mother of his children. This is something men of my
generation have been discussing our entire adult lives. It is why so
many of us are unmarried or never married.

Men have adapted to this situation, by developing a taste for Asian
women. In my recent travels, I spotted probably a dozen American men
with East Asian women. In baggage claim, the entitled feminist was
standing across from such a couple. He was a millennial, and his wife
looked like the typical second generation East Asian female. Our
feminist hero was glaring at them for the longest time. At the risk of
being accused of sexual assault, I searched our feminist hero’s face,
looking for the lights to come on.

All of this reminds me of something I have noticed when dealing with
feminist women. The best thing is to dominate them. It is not only the
best approach in the moment, but it opens a door for them to escape the
torment of modernity. In the company of feminists, I often begin talking
about repealing the 19th Amendment. I am polite, but firm. The results
are always positive. The reason is, modern women, like our feminist
hero, are living lives of bitter isolation, an isolation from who they
are as women. They are looking to escape it.

That is why men should always open the door for women.
