---
title: "The Sedition Lobby"
date: "2018-05-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13847"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13847"
---

I take some pride in the fact that I sniffed out the FBI scandal long
before the media had any idea what was happening. The whole Russian
hacking thing was such nonsense, that it had to be a cover for something
else. The subsequent machinations of the FBI and DOJ made it clear that
they were hiding something. Of course, we now know that some members of
the FBI and DOJ were engaged in domestic spying on the Trump campaign,
for purely political reasons. We are now starting to get a sense of who
is really behind it.

[This
post](https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2018/05/11/the-insurance-policy-the-ec-the-2016-fbi-counterintel-operation-and-the-mysterious-informant-who-originated-brennans-ec/)
from Conservative Tree House is a bit meandering, the guy really does
need someone to organize his thoughts, but it reveals an important fact
about this case that has not been made public. That is, the root of the
scandal is not the FBI, but the CIA. The guy who got this thing going
was former CIA Director John Brennan. He’s been an anti-Trump rage head
for a long time. It appears that he is the guy who initiated the
surveillance of the Trump campaign and set off the FBI conspiracy to get
Trump.

What appears to have happened is Brennan, or his people, contacted a
trusted friend of the neocon family for some help. Stefan Halper is the
guy fingered by the Tree House guys as the most likely candidate for the
job. He is a good candidate, as [he did meet with Carter Page and George
Papadopoulos](http://dailycaller.com/2018/03/25/george-papadopoulos-london-emails/).
If you look at the career of Halper, he has been in these fever swamps¹
for a long time, so it is not unreasonable to think he was working for
the anti-Trump loons. It’s also possible there were others used in this
caper.

The way it works is he reaches out to these guys and gets them thinking
they have been spotted as men on the come. Low-level types with big
ambition are always looking for a chance to talk with the big shots, so
Page and Papadopoulos were easy marks, and they took the bait. Then he
engages them in discussions that he can then claim were initiated by
them. He passes it along to his friends in the CIA, but the CIA cannot
spy on citizens in the US, so they pass it along to the FBI as a
friendly bit of inter-agency cooperation.

At this point, no one knows what was passed on from the CIA to the FBI.
That’s the crux of the ongoing battle between Congress and the FBI/DOJ.
It is well-established now that the FBI was spying on the Trump campaign
and Trump Tower. Their explanation for why they did this is laughable
nonsense, so the question is why did they do it and what was the
pretext. Most likely, they used what the CIA manufactured, along with
the phony dossier and possibly an FBI plant in the campaign, to get the
FISA warrant and spy on Trump.

Since the mass media has been instructed to give this story a good
leaving alone, it does not get the attention it deserves. What started
out as maybe some bungling and perhaps petty malfeasance among middling
FBI people, has now progressed up to include the former CIA Director,
former Attorney General and Former FBI Director. Those are some pretty
big fish. They are also the sorts of people who meet with the President
and his top aides on a regular basis. This looks like what the Left says
Watergate was about.

What makes this more serious than Watergate is that the crimes committed
here reveal a malice of forethought. The people caught trying to
cover-up Watergate and other campaign shenanigans did so after the fact
and mostly as non-participants. The people involved in this caper acted
with a clear intent. They set out to trap some Trump people so they
could then spy on the Trump campaign, including Trump himself, with the
goal of ending his campaign. When that failed, they decided to try and
remove him from office.

In what is turning out to be the proof of [this post from five years
ago](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=561), there was Russian meddling
in the last election. The trouble is, [the Russians were working with US
intelligence](http://thehill.com/opinion/white-house/387625-mueller-may-have-a-conflict-and-it-leads-directly-to-a-russian-oligarch)
to undermine the campaign of Donald Trump. That meddling may not have
stopped at the election but may be continuing to this day. In fact,
according to that linked article in The Hill, the FBI was trying to
enlist Oleg Derispaska in their scheme to link the Trump campaign with
Russian espionage. You cannot make this stuff up.

There is another element here. The NeverTrump operations was a purely
neoconservative operation, led by the current pope of the neocons, Bill
Kristol. John McCain has confessed to having played a role in the phony
dossier. Stefan Halper is a neocon fellow traveler¹. Bill Kristol’s
son-in-law, Matthew Continetti, [helped finance the
dossier](https://wtop.com/local/2017/10/website-gop-ties-funded-research-trump-dossier/).
Everywhere you look in this scandal, you find neocons. It’s almost as if
these people have some sort of hidden agenda, that they were willing to
do anything to promote, even if it meant sedition.

¹A reader (lars hemmer) pointed out that my short-hand description of
Halper as a neocon was inaccurate. He’s more of an intel community
insider, who has been a sometime neocon fellow traveler, when convenient
and hostile, when convenient. I changed the original post to reflect
that correction. Thank you lars hemmer.
