---
title: "The Futurism Is Not Bright"
date: "2018-08-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14799"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14799"
---

When I was a kid, I stumbled upon a book called [*Future
Shock*](https://www.amazon.com/Future-Shock-Alvin-Toffler/dp/0553277375),
by someone named [Alvin
Toffler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alvin_Toffler). I remember the
book for a few reasons. One is it was based on the idea that the pace of
change was accelerating and that humans were ill-equipped to manage the
onrush of the future. The other memorable part of the book was the claim
that society was moving from an industrial age to a super-industrial
age. The book was written in 1970, and I read it in the early 80’s, when
it was obvious there would be no super-industrial age.

The book is close to 500 pages, and it could have been boiled down to 50
pages. In fact, it could probably be condensed into a blog post. The
main point of the book was that societal change was accelerating. That
point was made just about every way possible and then filled out with
predictions that turned out to be all wrong. That was something else I
learned from the book. Futurists are extremely long winded. That said,
he sold millions of copies and became something of a rock star, so he
knew what he was doing.

In fairness to Toffler, by 1980 he had figured out that his
super-industrial society idea was a flop, so he came out with an updated
vision of the future called [*The Third
Wave*](https://www.amazon.com/Third-Wave-Alvin-Toffler/dp/0553246984).
This book predicted that the developed countries would move from
industrial to technological societies. He coined the term *Information
Age*. In fairness, he was not wrong about most everything like he was in
the previous book. For example, he predicted the end of the nation state
and the growth of the global entity that transcended the nation state.

That said, he was still wrong about most stuff. For example, he
predicted that technology would result in greater democracy with
populations exerting greater control of society and instituting more
local control. Pretty much the exact opposite has been the result of the
technological revolution. I think we can also say that the idea of a
managerial class rising out of the technological revolution was
something that many conservatives were onto long before Alvin Toffler
predicted it. Burnham wrote [*The Managerial
Revolution*](https://www.amazon.com/Managerial-Revolution-What-Happening-World/dp/0837156785)
in 1941.

Anyway, that all came to mind when I saw [this posted on
Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/tech/2018/08/17/george-gilder-google-repeats-marxs-errors-is-usurping-human-minds/).
George Gilder is a futurist, an economist, and an advocate of
intelligent design. He is co-founder of the [Discovery
Institute](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discovery_Institute). It is
probably accurate to describe him as a techno-utopian, one of those guys
who sits around thinking about the singularity. He has a book out
predicting the end of Google and the rise of a block chain technology as
the salvation of humanity from technocracy. The Breitbart piece is an
effort to sell books to conservatives.

Gilder is also a rabid Philo-Semite. He wrote a book called [The Israel
Test](https://www.amazon.com/Israel-Test-George-Gilder/dp/0980076358),
in which he credits everything good in the world to Israel. That won him
endless praise from neocons and Buckley Conservatives. He has argued
that [antisemitism is the hatred of capitalism and
excellence](https://www.nationalreview.com/2009/07/choosing-chosen-people-interview/).
The only reason to mention this is that like all futurists, Gilder is a
bit of grifter. The futurism game is not any different from reading
tarot cards or doing astrological charts. The idea is to tell the mark
what they want to hear. Flattery always sells.

That is futurism’s main attraction. It allows the futurist, as well as
his audience, to avoid dealing with present reality or learning much
about past reality. They cherry pick from the past to create a narrative
that results in the future of their making. When times are bad, the
futurist peddles a future that is devoid of the bad things of today.
When times are good, well, all the great stuff of today is going to be
awesome in the future. There has never been a futurist that predicts
doom. Those guys are called prophets, and we remember them.

In the 1970’s when American manufacturing was in trouble, Alvin Toffler
wrote about a future of super-industry, where everyone had a super job.
In the 80’s when things were looking up, the future was going to be even
more super. The futurist is primarily concerned with future earnings,
and no one is buying a book or paying for a speech about how crappy
things are going to be in the future. That is why Gilder is out with a
book claiming techno-feudalism is going to be replaced by a new utopian
algorithm that makes everything super.

Now, what about his central claim about Google? That it is model for
skimming off the economy is doomed to failure? The fact that he seems to
not have the slightest idea how Google makes money or how it is arranged
as a business is not encouraging. Comparing Google’s business model to
Marxism is just marketing. It is boob bait for the bubbas that read
people like Michelle Malkin. The book is probably littered with the
usual abracadabra words and phrases that titillate the audience of
Conservative Inc.

The fact is Google’s business model was a complete accident. Like most
tech companies, it was supposed to be a pump and dump. Page and Brin
wanted to sell their search engine once it gained popularity. When they
could not find a buyer, they figured out how to turn it into a roadside
bandit, charging tolls via ad dollars. They correctly saw that the
search engine was a bottleneck, and the bottleneck is always the best
place to skim from the users. Google simply taxes people on their way
from one service to another.

Can this model last forever? Nothing lasts forever, but as a state
protected monopolist, they will exist until the state decides otherwise.
Given that Google has more than enough money to buy every elected
official in Washington, no one in politics is in a hurry to break up
Google. Throw in the fact that like the state security agencies, Google
can spy on all of the elected officials and their aides, Google and the
rest of the oligarchs will remain in power until the revolution. But
that is not a promising future, so futurists ignore it.
