---
title: "Ghosts and Goblins"
date: "2018-08-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14668"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14668"
---

Thirty years ago, everyone knew what it meant to be a liberal. They
wanted to tax the rich and spend the proceeds on the poor. They wanted
to regulate business so they could not exploit their workers or harm the
environment. That meant favoring unions in the law. On foreign policy,
liberals were the doves when it came to dealing with the Soviets. Of
course, everyone knew what being a liberal meant when it came to social
issues. The point being liberalism was a well-defined list of policy
positions and opinions.

Today, what it means to be a liberal is a complete mystery, even to the
people who proudly say they are on the Left. The Netroots Nation was
this weekend, so all the grandees of Progressivism were in New Orleans
to pitch their ideas. [Look at the
agenda](https://www.netrootsnation.org/agenda/). Other than the promises
to oppose Trump, most of it focused on building traffic for their
websites. “Digital Security For Organizers Of Color” sounds amusing, but
mostly because it has that familiar paranoia that has come to define the
modern Left.

If you bother to watch any of [the
speeches](https://www.facebook.com/pg/NetrootsNation/videos/?ref=page_internal),
the tone is what you would expect from people facing the end times. One
after another it was a rallying call for the fight against some monster,
real or imagined. At least the ranting about Trump includes a real
person, even if the bill of indictment is insane. When you think about
it, the Russian collusion business is just an updated version of
“cavorting with the devil.” Their argument is that Trump made a deal
with the evil one, who magically altered the outcome of the 2016
election.

That’s what liberalism is these days. It is a weird collection of
superstitions about various ghosts and goblins like racism and white
privilege. Racism no longer means prejudice against another race or even
antagonism toward another race. Racism is the evil spirit that is
somehow responsible for unequal outcomes. White privilege is just
another name for the same mysterious force. It’s how millionaire black
athletes can be victims of racism because the white middle class fans
stop watching them over the anthem protests.

Another aspect of this is the extreme paranoia. Listen to the Left these
days and you get the impression America is now the movie The Purge. The
faithful spend every night in their bunker homes. [Here is a story from
Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/video/2018/08/03/maher-were-turning-into-iraq-where-the-minority-has-all-the-power-thanks-to-axis-of-evil-of-trump-murdoch-koch/)
about Bill Maher claiming that the United States is turning into Iraq.
He does not mean the post-war Iraq. He means the Saddam version where
his Al-Bu Nasir tribe ruled over the nation. In Maher’s version, Trump,
the Koch brothers and Rupert Murdoch rule over Maher’s oppressed
majority.

Now, Maher is a cynical provocateur and opportunist. He was a hack comic
for a long time until he figured out how to stoke the fears and
fantasies of liberal fanatics. It is debatable as to how much he
believes any of the stuff he says. In this case, he is clearly trying to
appeal to his audience, by naming three hobgoblins of the Left. The fact
that Charles Koch despises Trump and Murdoch was a Hillary supporter
makes his theory as nutty as the Russian hacking nonsense, but his
audience is not rational.

This vision of themselves as the put upon minority is integral to
Progressive identity politics. Not only do the constituencies needs to
believe they are victims, the Judeo-Puritan project is rooted in a
bunker mentality. Their sense of the world is of a righteous people
holed up in a New England town, as the imperial forces encircle them,
while they pray the oil holds out until the golem arrives to free them.
It is a dog’s breakfast of both spiritual and mythological strains that
make up modern Progressivism.

Again, Maher does this because he knows his audience is stupid and this
stuff works on them, but it speaks to something about the modern Left.
Conventional conservatives like the go on about how the Left has no
ideas now. That is true in the nuts-and-bolts public policy sense. The
Left is no longer a political force. It’s made the turn and is on its
way to becoming the Cult of the Supreme Being. Unlike Robespierre’s
invention, this version is esoteric, mysterious and oriental. There is
no defined supernatural, just a sense of it.

It’s also very feminine. The hysterical shrieking about the hobgoblins
that haunt the Left is reminiscent of the old Blondie cartoons, where
the woman would stand on a chair shrieking about a mouse in the kitchen.
In a more sophisticated age, the readers knew that the woman’s
performance was just that, a performance. It was an acting out and
reinforcement of traditional sex roles. Today, when the Progressive
climbs onto her chair and shrieks, there is no mouse and no man to rush
in and comfort her. It’s a lonely act.

This collapse of Progressivism into a feminine mystery cult is why
conventional conservatism has collapsed. Conservatism was never a
genuine alternative. Their role was as a foil to the Left. That worked
if Progressives had a policy agenda, but that is no longer the case.
Listen to the leading figures of the Left and their policy proposals
range from comically ridiculous to vaguely aspirational. Again, you see
the feminization. The Bernie Bros are now Bernie gals like Ocasio-Cortez
and Sarah Smith.

What this says about what comes next is hard to know. Spiritual
movements are a part of the human condition. Anthropologists think
belief is one of the earliest modern human traits, co-evolving with
language. As Christianity fades in the West, something must replace it.
Maybe we are seeing the birth of the next great religion. Alternatively,
the ranting and raving against nature could be the death howls of a
culture that has reached its terminal point. The end is a people huddled
in darkness, afraid of the goblins outside.
