---
title: "The Faith Of The Left"
date: "2018-06-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14027"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14027"
---

The reason the Left has gone from triumph to triumph is that they are
not motivated by reason, but rather by a quest for salvation. The social
issues that they champion, regardless of any practical considerations,
are always cast in moral terms. The issue itself is immaterial. It is
being on the right side of the issue that matters. Politics is an
endless series of tests they must pass in order to remain on the path of
the righteous, leading to the promised land.

<a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/30/us/politics/obama-reaction-trump-election-benjamin-rhodes.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This story</a> about Obama’s reaction to
the election is a good example.

*Riding in a motorcade in Lima, Peru, shortly after the 2016 election,
President Barack Obama was struggling to understand Donald J. Trump’s
victory.*

*“What if we were wrong?” he asked aides riding with him in the armored
presidential limousine.*

*He had read a column asserting that liberals had forgotten how
important identity was to people and had promoted an empty cosmopolitan
globalism that made many feel left behind. “Maybe we pushed too far,”
Mr. Obama said. “Maybe people just want to fall back into their tribe.”*

*His aides reassured him that he still would have won had he been able
to run for another term and that the next generation had more in common
with him than with Mr. Trump. Mr. Obama, the first black man elected
president, did not seem convinced. “Sometimes I wonder whether I was 10
or 20 years too early,” he said.*

This is a recurring theme with the American Left. It is the reason they
embraced the term “Progressive” as their preferred label. They start
with the unspoken belief that the story of man is written. It is the
duty of the righteous to live it. It is why “being on the right side of
history” comes up so often. The struggle as between those on the side of
the great historical force and those who are standing in the way of it.
The righteous are always looking forward and moving forward.

It is also why they think of the past as a dark age dominated by
sinners. There is no romanticism on the American Left, because the past
is by definition further away from the glorious future. Instead, the
past is filled with monsters that were either slain by the righteous, or
locked away, but ready to return at any moment. For example, they remain
forever vigilant about the return of Nazis, as if they still exist. In
the mind of the American progressive “Nazi” is just another name for Old
Scratch.

Notice in that Times piece that the Trump voters are described as “left
behind” rather than unhappy or in disagreement. In other words, the
people voting for Trump did so because they were sad for having been
left behind by the righteous. Voting for Trump was a cry for help. It is
tempting to see this as part of Obama’s narcissism, but in reality, his
narcissism is also the result of this deep belief in the flow of
history. He was chosen to lead the faithful, so of course he is a
narcissist.

You will notice that Progressives are forever warning about some attempt
to “turn back the clock” and return us to a former state of sin. It
resonates with Progressives, because for them, the eternal quest for
salvation means going forward, breaking away from the degraded past.
Trump’s “turning the clock back” is viewed as the wages of sin. Obama
thinks he tried too hard to deliver his people to the promised land. The
result was the great leap backward into Trumpism.

American Progressives are the purest form of true believers because they
have disconnected their beliefs from practical considerations.
Therefore, they are immune to facts and reason. When you examine the
language they use to describe politics and culture, you see the extreme
mysticism. Obama does not even really know what “left behind” means, but
he is sure it is a bad thing. For him, it is a purely a spiritual issue
to be thought of in those terms.

The error the Right has made for generations is to think it is possible
to prove the Left wrong, and therefore force them to abandon their
agenda. That is like thinking you can disprove sections of the Koran and
cause the Muslims to abandon their faith. In fact, efforts to do so will
always be met with a fierce defense of the faith. Practical arguments
always embolden the righteous, as it confirms their belief in themselves
as moral agents in a holy cause. Your irrational resistance is proof
they are on the righteous path.

It is why the Left have been so effective since the end of the Cold War,
but also why it has become so extreme and bizarre. Defending socialism
meant ceding authority to objective data like the unemployment rate or
GDP growth. That served as a check on the more unhinged elements. Once
free of these objective measures, it became a race to produce the most
extreme and bizarre identity group to champion. Lacking a limiting
principle, and untethered from practical reality, the Left got
increasingly extreme.

While it looks like the Left is headed for some sort of crack up, it is
important to remember that people have to believe in something. The
reason conservatism was such a flop is it never tried to appeal to this
aspect of man’s nature. It was the ideology of the bookkeeper. No matter
how fat, dumb and happy, people will always yearn for the eternal. If
there is to be an alternative to the prevailing orthodoxy, it is going
to have to offer an alternative to those who desire to be on the side of
angels.
