---
title: "An Immoderate Age"
date: "2018-01-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12641"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12641"
---

Last week, [this ridiculous
article](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/06/opinion/sunday/alt-right-asian-fetish.html?ref=oembed&_r=2) in
the New York Times generated some attention on alt-right social media,
mostly because it allowed for some petty bickering. Anytime the media
does a story on alt-right people, the guys not mentioned take the
opportunity to say bad things about the guys that were mentioned in the
story. John Derbyshire said everything that needed to be said about the
Times piece in [this post at
VDare](http://www.vdare.com/posts/the-nyt-on-the-alt-rights-asian-fetish-john-derbyshire-responds).
In it, he referenced [his old
column](http://www.vdare.com/articles/john-derbyshire-on-immigration-liberty-and-mating-choices)
on the topic and [the corresponding version from Jared
Taylor](http://www.vdare.com/articles/race-purists-are-they-slightly-nuts-jared-taylor-responds-to-john-derbyshire).

Taken together, it is good example of how the hive mind is unable to
address reality on its own terms. Mx. Audrea Lim, of the New York Times
piece, cannot consider the possibility that there could be more than two
opinions on a subject. For her and the others in the Progressive hive,
there are good people, the people inside the walls, and bad people,
those outside the walls. The good people hold the correct opinions,
while the bad people have other opinions, which are all bad. That is as
much of the world she needs to know.

As you see with Derb and Taylor, there is a wide range of opinion on the
Dissident Right about subjects like race, identity, immigration,
race-mixing and diversity. Even the alt-right has a diversity of opinion
on these subjects. Calling any of these people “white supremacists” is
about the dumbest thing possible, but it is just one of the many scare
phrases Lefty has for those outside the walls. Not only are there few,
if any, white supremacists on the Dissident Right, there are more than a
few non-whites.

The fact is, the Dissident Right, in all its permutations, exists
because our Progressive overlords lack the capacity to understand
nuance. Take miscegenation, for example. It is a fact of life that some
small number of females, of any race, will have a mating preference for
males outside their race. Males are far less choosy, as their biology
favors the shotgun approach to reproduction, while the female favors the
rifle approach. This reality is just salt in the stew of life and if
left alone nothing anyone need worry over.

For people in the hive, this is an impossibility. You either completely
and totally embrace something, or you completely and entirely reject it.
It is why they squeal about homophobia if you are not enthusiastic about
the latest perversions. The Progressive mind cannot accept the
possibility of being indifferent to something. It is why our television
shows and movies are now packed to the gills with race mixing. Even
though our rulers live like Klan members, there is no limit to the
amount of race mixing they will pack into the culture.

The hive minded also struggle with abstract reasoning. Richard Spencer
likes using the concept of an ethnostate to explain his opinions on race
and identity. It is a useful way of getting people to break free from
the concrete world of the here and now to imagine an alternative
ordering. Spencer is not advocating for a new country to be carved out
of Canada as a new white homeland. It is a mental model meant to
illustrate certain points about race and identity. The hive minded,
however, assume he wants a honky homeland.

Diversity is the salt in the stew. Some races like more than others, but
no people wish to be overrun by people not like them. The Chinese have
always been careful to limit the number of non-Chinese into their lands
and limit where they can go in China. Africans tend to murder anyone not
in their tribe. Europeans, in contrast, are fine with cosmopolitan
cities, where you see lots of diversity, as long as the home team
remains in charge and atop the social structure. Like seasoning,
diversity works in moderation.

That is the core problem in the modern age. Our rulers lack anything
resembling moderation. If a little immigration is good, then they want
unlimited immigration. If a few temporary guest workers are good, they
want the entire white workforce replaced by helot labor from over the
horizon. The vulgarity of having Americans train their foreign
replacements at places like Disney is driven by a near total lack of
moderation. If one Hindu is good, a whole building full of them will be
heaven on earth!

We live in an immoderate age. We saw that in the past election and we
are seeing it now in the efforts to craft immigration reform
legislation. No one would oppose a small, limited amnesty for some
illegal invaders, who have been here for a long time. As long as it
comes with tough measures to limit further invasions and protections
against future backsliding on the issue. Trump’s wall creates a
permanent lobby in Washington in favor of border protection. Programs
like e-Verify alter the hiring culture to prevent labor abuse.

The package of proposals from the White House is reasonable and
sensible. It is a practical response to a public policy problem. If the
compromise includes legalizing a few hundred thousand invaders, a
civilized people can accept it. But the people in charge are incapable
of moderation, which is why they blew up the talks and are demanding a
blanket amnesty with no conditions. Again, the hive minded can only
understand the world in binary terms. It is those inside the walls
versus those outside the walls.

There is no reasoning with fanatics. As much as many on our side want to
believe that practical issues are what is behind the multicultural
madness, the fact is the people pushing it are not reasonable people.
They are all or nothing people. That is why this cannot end well. The
people in charge either succeed in pulling the roof down on the rest of
us, or the rest of us are forced to do what is necessary to dislodge the
lunatics that have seized the high ground of the culture. Moderation is
not the answer to fanaticism.

This will not end well.
