---
title: "The Cheap Credit Era"
date: "2018-06-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14083"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14083"
---

The current age is one of extreme short-term thinking. Americans have
always been known for taking the short view, but today our culture is
built around a “live for the moment” attitude. Sit in a business meeting
and exactly no one talks about downstream possibilities. It is all about
this month, this quarter or, for the sprinkling of long-term planners,
the remainder of the year. You see this in our politics, where everyone
reacts to the latest polls or latest news event. We are a high time
preference society now.

This is why immigration reform is proving to be a non-starter. The Left
side of the political class sees nothing but opportunities to rig the
next election with foreign ringers, so anything that interferes with
that is blocked. The Right side is wholly owned by the cheap labor
lobbies, who like the idea of disposable labor. It is not that the
people in charge think their grandchildren will be exempt from the
ravages of mass migration. It is that they are unable to think past the
moment. For our rulers, tomorrow never comes.

Just because the people in charge have no interest in the future does
not mean the future is equally disinterested in us. That is what will
make the coming years interesting, with regards to the economy. [The Fed
has finally begun the process of tightening the money
supply](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-fed/with-rate-hike-in-the-bag-focus-turns-to-feds-policy-language-idUSKBN1J80DA),
after a decade of an extremely loose policy. That means rising interest
rates in the US and a strengthening dollar, relative to other
currencies. This is not going to happen overnight, but the Fed is going
to move quickly now that there are [signs of real
inflation](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-06-12/u-s-inflation-at-six-year-high-eating-away-at-wage-increases).

The trouble is a big chunk of the economy has become addicted to cheap
money. [Take a look at the car
business](https://www.wsj.com/articles/auto-lenders-ramp-up-risk-to-win-more-customers-1528639200).
Every car maker has set up special lending facilities so they can entice
buyers. Instead of figuring out how to make cheaper cars, they offer
near zero interest and extended terms. You can get from most makers a
seven-year term on a new car, along with a super-low interest rate. They
may even offer cash back you can use for the down payment. There’s even
[sub-prime
lending](https://www.ft.com/content/f93fd9d8-4a62-11e8-8ae9-4b5ddcca99b3)
at the lower end of the market.

Now, the Feds are not bringing back 1970’s interest rates and they are
going to move slow. Still, it has been a long time since interest rates
have been close to historic averages and that means most people making
decisions do not know what it is like to live in that world. It has been
18 years since mortgage rates were above seven percent. It has been 27
years since we saw eight percent rates. It has been a decade since rates
were above five percent. In other words, the world has become used to
historically low rates.

It is not just the retail end that will have to come to terms with a
world of rising interest rates. Most business runs on credit these days.
The bigger the business, the bigger the debt burden. [US corporation
have $4
trillion](https://www.marketwatch.com/story/why-a-record-4-trillion-in-corporate-debt-isnt-scary-2018-05-11)
in debt that will roll over in the next five years, according to
industry analysts. What this means is their debt service will increase
as they refinance old debt with new, more expensive debt. That is how
corporate debt works. Most of it is fueled by bonds, so new debt pays
maturing debt plus interest.

Of course, business is not the only institution relying on cheap credit.
Governments around the world have come to depend on the endless appetite
for sovereign debt to keep borrowing rates low. When central banks take
money off the street, it means there is less money to chase after
sovereign debt. Healthy debtors like the US government will not feel the
pinch, but the struggling countries in Europe and South America are
going to find it more difficult to sell debt. It may not take much to
topple [a country like
Argentina](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/commentary/article-argentina-in-crisis-again-and-that-could-spell-trouble-for-emerging/).

Again, the Fed is not bringing us back to the 1970’s. Barring some
inconceivable catastrophe, no one reading this will ever see
double-digit interest rates again. It is just that since the end of the
Cold War, America has been living with historically low interest rates
and it has changed the nature of our economy. Cheap credit makes short
term deals more viable and more common. It also increases risk taking.
The result of all this cheap money is an economy that lives for the
moment. Everyone is in it for the quick buck.

In theory, the slow gradual return of interest rates to something close
to historic norms should not have a big impact. Almost thirty years of
super-low rates, means most of the institutional knowledge about working
in a normal rate environment is gone or heading for retirement. That
means a lot of people are going to have learn the hard way about how
business and finance works in a less than free money era. Therefore, no
one can really be sure what is going to happen as the Feds slowly raise
rates over the next years.
