---
title: "The Age Of Ugly"
date: "2018-12-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15878"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15878"
---

In the fullness of time, the robot historians sifting through the
remains of this age will point to the 1970’s as the time when the
American empire took a fateful turn. The 1960’s get all the blame for
the cultural collapse of America and the West, but that is not fair nor
is it accurate. Lots of terrible ideas were born in the 60’s, but
terrible ideas like the Civil Rights movement started in the 50’s.
Women’s rights started in the 20’s. It was the 1970’s when all these
terrible ideas came together to wash away the West.

Look at the disco era, as portrayed by the movie Saturday Night Fever.
You have all the things that define this era. There is the reckless
personal behavior, the pointlessness of the character’s lives and the
denigration of bourgeois values. The main character is basically a bum
who works in a hardware store so he can make enough money to party with
other degenerates. He treats his girlfriend so poorly, she eventually
becomes a whore that his buddies pass around, so she can stay in the
group.

Everything about the movie, like the lifestyle it portrayed, was
degenerate. The disco era was basically just an effort to take the
underground homosexual scene in New York City and vomit it onto Middle
America. It largely worked too. While the 1960’s saw bourgeois America
stagger, it was the 1970’s when the cultural revolution hit the working
and lower classes. All the rules that gave structure to the lower ranks
were obliterated. The result was the birth of the white underclass and a
drug culture that is still with us.

Again, the terrible ideas that found their way into the lower class in
the 70’s were not products of the time. Just as the hippy culture was a
result of the beatnik phenomenon, which was an outgrowth of the jazz
age, the 70’s were a consequence. The difference though is that the
cultural changes that rocketed through the middle and upper classes
could be absorbed to a great degree. Money and class provide for a
greater margin of error. Rich people can afford sex, drugs and rock and
roll.

That is the real crime of the post-war cultural revolution. The people
at the top benefited from it, as they were no longer morally responsible
for setting a good example and looking after society. They were suddenly
free to be indifferent. The upper middle-class could inoculate itself
from most of the damage, mostly by moving into enclaves where their kids
would not be exposed to the consequences. The proliferation of private
schools for the upper middle-classes started in the 1970’s for a reason.

It is the middle and lower classes that have paid the price for what
happened in the post war years. To a great degree, middle class America
has always been an extension of the working class. The smart and
resourceful kids of the working class could make it into office jobs,
rather than working in blue collar fields. At the same time, if the
children of middle-class people slipped up and fell into the working
class, the climb back up was not that far and only required a little
help. The gap between the middle and the rest was small.

The cultural revolution decimated the working classes, creating a white
underclass. The gap between there and the middle-class is now enormous.
If the child of schoolteachers makes mistakes and falls out of the
middle class, it is as if he has fallen down a well. The climb back out
of the underclass is enormous. One unmentioned reason for the shrinking
white middle-class is the floor underneath them has collapsed. This not
only makes them vulnerable, but it has also made them powerless as a
political force.

Another consequence of the cultural revolution was the segregation of
the classes, both physically and cognitively. The ruling elites, freed
from any moral duty to look out for their inferiors, were now entirely
divorced from them. The upper-middle, which always looks up for its
aesthetic and cultural cues, has now cultivated a hatred of the lower
ranks, as part of what defines their class. Those rules, enforced by the
upper classes, that provided structure to the lower classes, also
provided a connection between the classes.

The physical ugliness of the 1970’s, as presented in the movie Saturday
Night Fever, was a glimpse of the spiritual degeneracy to come. The
pointless self-indulgence of the characters, their reckless disregard
for one another, their families, and communities, all of it was waiting
for the country. The physical ugliness of the age has been cleansed by
the sterile aesthetic of Silicon Valley, but the spiritual ugliness of
the cultural revolution remains. Glass and stainless steel cannot mask
it.

That ugliness is what fuels the populist movements. In Europe and
America, the natives, physically and culturally divorced from their
rulers, are now looking for alternative sources of authority. The people
are recoiling at the ugly world created for them by their rulers, so the
slow search for new rulers has begun. No one thinks about it quite like
that yet, but in time, that corner will be turned. We will move from
reform to the idea of starting fresh and leaving the ugliness of
left-wing radicalism behind.
