---
title: "The Museum Is Closed"
date: "2018-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13450"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13450"
---

Imagine you are asked to compete against another person. Let’s say it is
a manly contest like boxing or martial arts. The person arranging it
talks about the fight in a conventional way, allowing you to assume the
match will follow the conventional rules for the sport. Let’s say it is
agreed that on a given day, you will show up and box the champion from
the other team. You show up on that day, learn that the guy is twice
your size and he will be allowed to use a sword in the ring.

That’s a ridiculous scenario, but the point is the only way there can be
a fair competition is when both sides abide by the same set of rules.
Otherwise you find yourself in the ring with a giant, trying to dodge
his weapon of choice. This is something most men learn on the playground
as kids. The exception seems to be conservatives, who have been allowing
themselves to be clubbed by the Left for as long as anyone reading this
has been alive. T<a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/g-file/kevin-williamson-thought-criminal/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">hey still cannot grasp this basic
concept</a>.

*Michael Anton, who penned “The Flight 93 Election” back when he was
hiding behind a pen-name, articulated very well in an exchange with me
what millions of conservatives believe to be true:*

*The old American ideal of judging individuals and not groups,
content-of-character-not-color-of-skin, is dead, dead, dead. Dead as a
matter of politics, policy and culture. The left plays by new rules. The
right still plays by the old rules. The left laughs at us for it — but
also demands that we keep to that rulebook. They don’t even bother to
cheat. They proclaim outright that “these rules don’t apply to our
side.”*

*I disagree with Anton’s prescription — to surrender to identity
politics and cheat the way our “enemies” do — but I cannot argue much
with this description of a widespread mindset. Many on the right are
surrendering to the logic of the mob because they are sick of double
standards. Again, I disagree with the decision to surrender, but I
certainly empathize with the temptation. The Left and the mainstream
media can’t even see how they don’t want to simply win, they want
to force people to celebrate their victories (“You will be made to
care!”). It isn’t forced conversion at the tip of a sword, but at the
blunt edge of a virtual mob.*

Goldberg is not alone in this. Buckley conservatives, neocons and
libertarians spend every waking moment prattling on about their
principles. This is understandable for libertarians and neocons. The
former are outlandishly stupid and the latter are subversively
dishonest. Conservatives, on the other hand, are supposed to accept the
world for what it is. The starting place for conservatism has always
been an acceptance of the human condition. Conservatism is the absence
of ideology, in the words of Kirk.

It’s tempting to write-off the Buckleyites as sellouts and grifters.
There’s certainly some of that. Being a good punching bag has put Jonah
Goldberg into a million dollar home in one of the wealthiest
neighborhoods on earth. Being wrong a lot pays really well, if you’re
willing to be the Left’s footstool. There’s also the dunce factor. Being
a pundit does not require a high IQ. That’s why you don’t find too many
math majors in the chattering classes. It is entirely possible that many
conservatives think they are right.

To continue to play by a set of rules that guarantees failure and
failure guarantees a non-conservative outcome is pretty much the
antithesis of conservatism. Fundamental to conservatism is the belief in
a transcendent moral order. No matter what political mechanisms it may
utilize or the rules it relies upon to operate its political machinery,
a society of people morally adrift, living at odds with the natural
order, is an immoral and unjust society. Ordered depravity is still
depravity. Principles are a means to an end.

That’s why the argument from guys like Goldberg, that conservatism is
about means, not ends, is fundamentally un-conservative. Conservatives
since the dawn of time have understood that it is the ends that matter.
The form of government is only useful in achieving good ends. Custom,
convention, and continuity are the proven means for attaining a society
in-tune with the natural order, but conservatism does not require a
mindless fidelity to the past. If the ends require it, novelty is
perfectly acceptable.

Of course, you can make a fetish of rules and your own adherence to
principle when you don’t have skin in the game. Much of what plagues
conservatism, and has for at least two generations, is the modern
conservative is a man who prefers to live in imagination land, rather
that the real world. Jonah Goldberg can be on the losing side of every
debate, because it has no impact on his life. When he loses to the big
guy with the spiky club, it is someone else who takes the beating. Most
of us cannot afford to be so principled.

The fact remains, the people now claiming ownership of the label
conservative are not actually conservative. Even calling them “northern
conservatives” is a crime against the language. They are simply guys who
say their lines in their role as foil for the prevailing orthodoxy. They
have been nothing more than a collection of cartoon villains for the
morality play concocted by Progressives. At the dawn of the demographic
age, they no longer even work as props in the morality play. They are
museum pieces.

 
