---
title: "Serendipity"
date: "2018-05-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13915"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13915"
---

In early December of 1241, the great Mongol army was camped on the
Hungarian plain, poised to invade Europe “all the way to the Great Sea.”
In the spring, they had defeated the Hungarian army at the battle of
Mohi and spent the summer and fall ravaging eastern Europe. By autumn,
all of the lands east of what is now modern Germany had been subdued by
the Mongols. There was no army between the Mongols and the Atlantic
Ocean capable of stopping them.

Then, in the middle of December, Ogedei Khan, the Great Khan, died on a
hunting trip, most likely drunk. He was well known as a drunkard and the
legend is that he fell off his horse while drunk. Regardless of the
reason, his death required all of the Mongol leaders to return home and
select a new Great Khan. That meant the Mongol army returned home. It
was one of those fortunate events that probably made it possible for
Europe to be Europe.

To put this into some perspective, the Mongols invaded what is now Iraq,
known in the 13th century as the Abbasid Caliphate. This was the third
caliphate, whose rulers were descended from Abbas, the uncle of
Muhammad. Baghdad was the capital and one of the most advanced cities in
the world. The Mongols sacked the city in 1258, putting up to one
million people to the sword. They destroyed the city, filled the canals,
and stole or burned everything of value.

At the time, Baghdad was the center of the Islamic world. The Grand
Library of Baghdad may have been the most important center of knowledge
on earth. It had books ranging from medicine to astronomy. The
thirty-six public libraries in the city were also burned. Of course, the
scholars and learned people who used those books and libraries were
murdered. The center of Islamic learning was destroyed. The population
of the city and surrounding areas did not recover until the 19th
century.

The point of this is that serendipity often plays a definitive role in
humans affairs. At the dawn of the 13th century, there was no reason to
think Europe was about to rocket ahead of the rest of the world. Through
the Middle Ages, Europe slowly began to develop more advanced societies
and develop a high culture, but they were still playing catch-up with
Asia and the Middle East. The unexpected and unpredictable events of the
Mongol invasions radically changed the trajectory of the world.

In retrospect, it is easy to look at a singular event like the Great
Khan dropping dead just when his armies are about to sack Europe and see
the significance. Once you read the story of the Mongol invasions, you
know the West dodged something close to a meteor strike. The Siege of
Baghdad, and its subsequent obliteration, is probably the great
inflection point in the history of Islam. The Islamic intellectual curve
bent sharply downward because of the Mongol invasions.

The thing is serendipity can also be the result of great stupidity. The
Mongols initially tried to establish trade relations with the Khwarezmid
Shah, who ruled the lands between the Mongols and the Abbasid Caliphate.
The trouble was the caliph and shah hated one another and conspired to
keep each other from making a deal. It is a matter of dispute, but some
historians argue that the Mongols never would have invaded if they could
have struck a deal. They took the rejection as an insult and invaded.

This brings us to some rather interesting serendipity of our own age. In
2015, there was no reason to think the 2016 election was going to be
important. The smart money said it would be Bush versus Clinton. If not
Bush, then Bush clone. Then like the meteor that wiped out the
dinosaurs, Trump entered the race and altered the political trajectory
of the empire. Not only has this event extinguished the Bush wing of the
GOP, but it is also threatening the neo-liberal world order.

How did this happen? Mostly it is due to Trump getting angry about how
the political class has treated him. Like all rich guys, he had spread
his money around to buy friends in the political class. He never had any
respect for them, but if you want to do business in the world you have
to do business with the people who run it. According to people who know
him, what got Trump interested in running is being disrespected by the
people in the chattering classes.

How this improbable event happened is going to be debated for a long
time, but there is no debate about the consequences. Imagine if Clinton
were president. The CIA meddling in our politics would only have
accelerated. The corruption of the FBI would never have been revealed.
In fact, it would have metastasized. People like to focus on the policy
issues, but without the miracle of Trump, Washington would be ruled
today by a dumpy old Caligula in a muumuu.

Here is another bit of serendipity. This would never have come to light
if not for two stupid moves by the Democrats. One is the nonsense about
Russian hacking. For no other reason than spite, the Left embraced this
ridiculous narrative. The other is the  demands for an IG investigation
of the FBI’s handling of the Clinton e-mail stuff. They were the ones
who demanded it, after blaming Comey for the election loss. Two dumb
decisions have changed the world.
