---
title: "Prog Taqiyya"
date: "2018-11-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Moonbats
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15570"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15570"
---

According to Islamic scholars, taqiyya is “is a precautionary
dissimulation or denial of religious belief and practice in the face of
persecution.” Muslims are forbidden to deny their faith, but there are
exceptions and one of them is when the Muslim is living in a place where
persecution of Islam is common. For Islam to spread, the adherents must
be alive, so allowing for this exception makes sense. The implication
here is that the faithful Muslim works like a fifth columnist,
recruiting in the shadows, while hiding his faith.

Of course, this doctrine is open to interpretation, so some sects have
interpreted it to mean that all lying is acceptable, if it can be argued
that the lie is in service to Islam. If the faithful Muslim can use
deception to help the faith, then lying is not only acceptable, but also
admirable. The effect is Islam can easily become an end justifies the
means political and cultural movement. This is what we see with Islam in
the West, where Imams preach against their Western hosts in the mosque,
but go on television and say the opposite.

This habit of mind is something we see with modern Progressives whose
hive-mindedness has evolved to the point where lying to outsiders is not
only acceptable, but a goal. Every election, Progressives fill the
airwaves with things they know are lies. In fact, they tell lies that
they know everyone else knows are lies. The practice of lying in the
election process has become something like a religious practice for
them. The point of the lying is not to conceal or deceive, but to
demonstrate their worthiness to the cause.

The academic quality of the lying turns up in all the Progressive fads.
We saw that in the madness of the Kavanaugh hearings. The definition of
sexual assault, a nonsense term, has been stretched to mean just about
anything, by people who seem to take pride in making the language
meaningless. When you see a young feminist loon howling about being
assaulted, the look on her face usually suggests she is proud to have
found some way to stretch the meaning of the terms to include some new
nonsense.

The thing is the sheer volume of lying has had the effect of concealing
in plain sight the fact that the Progressives never speak the truth
about anything. In fact, speaking the truth has become a crime of sorts.
[Professor Amy
Wax](https://vdare.com/posts/amy-wax-lawsuit-could-reveal-embarrassing-truths-about-black-students)
is thinking about suing her school, because they accused her of making
up what is a plainly obvious fact. If the school is correct about what
she said, they could release the data and show that she is wrong.
Instead, they lie, refuse to produce the data, and then accuse her of
lying about the data.

It used to be that the Left either exaggerated to make their points or
used clever euphemism to obscure the truth. For example, the illegal
immigrant was an undocumented worker. This sort of soft, fuzzy language
was the result of modern managerialism, where garbage men became
sanitation engineers and janitors became facility management
specialists. Applying the same sort of rhetoric to political discourse
was natural, but at least there was some connection to reality, even if
it was tenuous.

Where they are now is that the lie is the point. This became obvious
when the Clintons arrived on the scene. They would lie for sport. Even
their allies were baffled as to why they would lie when the truth would
serve them better. It’s not hard to imagine a person like Hillary
Clinton ordering a turkey sandwich for lunch and when it comes to the
table, swearing she ordered something else. There is no purpose in the
lie other than to do it and be seen doing it. Clever lying is now an end
in itself with the American Left.

This cult of mendacity is not without antecedents. The Frankfurt School
was a series of clever intellectual constructions that advanced a
political agenda by scrambling the relationship between public policy
and observable reality. From it was born the notion that the point of
academic activity is to disrupt, overturn and challenge anything that
resembles accepted policy. Read through the stuff coming from the
multicultural rackets and the whole point of it is to turn being a
public nuisance into an academic specialty.

The permanent revolution of Marxist radicalism became a permanent
assault on reason by cult-Marx intellectuals. In politics this then
became a game of shameless lying not only advance an agenda, but to
increase the status of the liar. The more absurd and ridiculous the
fabrication, the greater the applause from the Progressive crowd. In
fact, it is no longer possible to identify a Progressive agenda. It is a
dadaist performance that is rapidly becoming an anti-agenda. It is
mendacious nonsense as a public display of piety.

Invasive species are a danger because the ecosystem they invade is not
prepared to deal with the foreign threat. The oriental logic of the
Frankfurt School may have had the same effect in the liberal tradition
of the West as the presence of Burmese pythons has had in the
everglades. Instead of being taken over by this alien mode of thought,
the Western liberal tradition has been driven mad by it. The result is
an intellectual movement that celebrates complex dishonesty and
fabrication for no purpose other than for aesthetics.
