---
title: "How Not To Be Boring"
date: "2018-07-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14266"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14266"
---

There are few things worse than conversing with a boring person. I’m not
talking about quiet people. A person who keeps his own confidence is
often thought of as mysterious or complex. Their silence makes them
interesting. A boring person is almost always someone who talks a lot,
revealing that they are not very interesting. Boring people are such a
menace, that there is a whole area of etiquette about politely getting
away from the boring guy at a social event.

So, what makes a person boring?

More important, how can you avoid being seen as a boring person?

The first thing you notice about boring people is they never seem to
have a point to their stories and anecdotes. Stories must have a point.
No one cares about what you had for lunch, unless it was something
bizarre or unusual. If you had a delicious turkey club for lunch, that’s
not something anyone wants to know. Now, if the waiter stripped naked
and ran screaming into the street after serving you that delicious
turkey club, then you have a story with a point. That’s an amusing tale.

Your stories and anecdotes don’t have to be amusing.  What’s important
is you have some reason for telling the story. This is a courtesy to the
listener. By having a point, you are showing respect to the listener,
whether it it by sharing information with them or making them laugh with
an amusing story. When your stories are pointless recitations of mundane
events, you are, whether you realize it or not, insulting the audience.
At the minimum, you are wasting their time, which is just as bad.

You should also avoid unnecessary details. That story about the waiter
stripping down and running into the street is a good example. If you
spend five minutes describing the menu and the turkey sandwich, then
thirty seconds on the naked man, you made an amusing tale into misery
for your listeners. Sure, a little setup to the big reveal is a good way
to create tension, but a little goes a long way. In a social setting, a
good story is one that avoids extraneous details.

The easiest way to avoid loading up your sixty second story with ten
minutes of tedium is to never explain the obvious. This is the most
common error boring people make when telling a story. For some reason,
they think they need to explain what everyone on earth has known since
childhood. In the case of our turkey club, the boring person will
actually explain what he means by turkey club or maybe even talk about
the history of the turkey club. When in doubt, skip it.

Another way to avoid being the boring guy everyone avoids is to never
tell a story that requires a back story. Boring people often start a
story that should last three minutes, then veer into a long back story.
For example, the they will veer into a story about how they met their
lunch companion in the turkey club story. The result is a dull story
about the lunch companion, plus a dull description of the turkey club.
This is misery for listeners and is an unacceptable price for the
pay-off.

The boring also have a funny habit of talking over people. They ignore
the little things others do to signal to the boring that they need to
stop talking. The boring are strangely competitive in their dullness. If
you notice people starting to speak as soon as you take a breath, or
they start looking at their phones, you are the boring guy. You are not
going to improve this situation by talking louder or talking over any
interruptions. Take the hint and wrap up your story.

A good way to stop yourself from being that guy is to always invite
others to tell their story or comment on the topic of conversation.
People will find your turkey club story more interesting if you showed
interest in their lunch story. A little active listening goes a long
way. It not only keeps you from droning on about the delicious turkey
club, it makes you seem more interesting to others. Boring people are
selfish people, in that they are only interested in their point of view,
in far too much detail.

Finally, if it is a story you tell often and the listener is someone you
know well, assume you told them the story, because you almost certainly
did. Start with “If I told this before, stop me” or maybe, “I probably
told this story before…” This gives them the right to stop you from
boring them with the 80th retelling. This is a courtesy to the listener
and it makes you seem more interesting. This is flattering to the
listener and and they will think better of you for it.
