---
title: "The Cult of Neoconservatism"
date: "2018-09-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15144"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15144"
---

The word “cult” is a term often abused by progressives, because it
carries with it negative connotations. They like to use it to slander
their enemies. The usual suspects convinced the world that Nazism was a
cult, to make their case that anyone finding fascism appealing is not
just mistaken, but crazy. Progressives picked up on this to brand their
enemies. Even so, it is a useful concept, as the cult seems to be a
feature of human behavior. Cults go back to the Bronze Age.

In the modern sense, we think of a cult as having certain features, like
a charismatic leader and a sense of isolation. A cult always has a set
of beliefs that are so convincing to the adherents, in terms of defining
their existence and their relationship to the world, that they almost
seem brainwashed. It is as if they are controlled by them. The identity
of the cult and its purpose becomes the identity and purpose of the
adherent. As a result, they operate like an ant farm or a beehive.

Neoconservatism has many of the features of a cult. The members are
increasingly isolated from the rest of the world, both physically and
emotionally. There is the sense of the embattled minority, ready to
martyr themselves for the cause. The members seem to operate in an
ideological fog, unable to recognize the massive disconnect between
their beliefs and reality. To the neocons, their ideology is perfectly
rational, but to outsiders it seems dangerously nutty.

The late great Eric Hoffer pointed out that all mass movements can get
along without a god, but they always need a devil. You see that with the
neocons. They do not have the charismatic leader, like we normally
associate with cults, but perhaps to the adherents, Robert Kagan is
charming. Despite his unpleasant demeanor and long list of failures,
they venerate him. Still, what holds the cult together is their list of
devils, which are all cast as a manifestation of the great authoritarian
villain.

That comes through in [this piece by Anne
Applebaum](https://spectator.us/2018/09/viktor-orban-duped-brexiteers/)
in the Spectator. It is a good example of the paranoid fantasy. Mx.
Applebaum is a neocon rage head, who specializes in scanning the eastern
horizon for signs of [Alexander
III](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_III_of_Russia). The
neocons  obsession with Russia borders on the pathological, which leads
many to assume it is biological. As a result, resistance to cosmopolitan
globalism in the east is cast by the neocons as the return of you know
who.

A feature of neoconservatism that is shared by all Jews is they are
haunted by the thought of exclusion. Being left out is their greatest
fear. This manifests as an abhorrence to limits, borders, and clear
definitions. This mania for formlessness has been picked up by other
tribes of the left. Feminists, for example, rage against biology,
because definitions of sex are by nature exclusionary. The BLM activists
toppling over statues do so because it is not their history.

This is why neocons favor open borders and recoil in horror at efforts
to restore some sense of national unity. When the neocon thinks of
borders, he thinks of fences and then starts to think about you know
who. You’ll note that the bad guys of the Visegrad are talked about by
neocons as an implementation of the all-purpose bogeyman, the
[authoritarian
Übermensch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Authoritarian_Personality).
The neocons have this imaginary, all-purpose bogeyman, they manifest in
the real world, but exists in the world for forms.

Another cult-like aspect of the neocons is their internalization of
fundamentally irrational and contradictory ideas. For example, after
9/11, the neocons advocated importing millions of Muslims into the US,
while at the same time advocating the bombing of Muslim homes and
villages.  People can be forgiven for thinking the creation of the “home
grown” terrorist, the angry Muslim living in the West, radicalized by US
foreign policy, is intentional. To neocons cult this all makes sense.

What argues against calling neoconservativism a cult is how well it fits
in with the other two pillars of the ruling orthodoxy. The heirs of
William Bradford, with their neo-covenant theology and sense of communal
salvation, fit in neatly with Jews and their fear of exclusion and
anti-majoritarian animosities. Together, they domestically form the
progressive orthodoxy we see today. In a way, the neocons are a
complimentary piece, that extends this mode of thought into the areas of
foreign policy.

On the other hand, American progressives are showing all the signs of
devolving into a cult, with their strange siege mentality and bizarre
internal logic. The fact that their pantheon of heroes is referred to by
three initials is not an affectation. It is part of the ritual of
sacralizing their former leaders. Perhaps the inevitable move by the
neocons back to the left, is the completion of some cosmic puzzle.
Perhaps like a UFO cult, they see it as the final piece of the cosmic
puzzle, signifying the end times.

There is a strong case that neoconservativism is a cult, one based on an
obsession with public policy and haunted by nightmares of the
authoritarian bogeyman. Their inability to adapt to present reality,
becoming more extreme in the face of disconfirmation, is the sort of
thing you expect from a cult. Perhaps it runs its course peacefully
disappearing into the dustbin of history. Prudence suggests caution as
end times cults tend to end with a bang, rather than a whimper.
