---
title: "The Encirclement"
date: "2018-08-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14879"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14879"
---

If something gets lodged under your skin, the body will react by trying
to push it out, which involves swelling and inflammation, due to the
presence of microorganisms on the foreign material. Along with the
normal renewal of skin cells, the object will move closer to the surface
and eventually, with your help, be expelled. If that does not work, the
body summons cells call macrophages that surround the object to isolate
it from the body and eventually dissolve it. Sometimes you just end up
with a calcified object there forever.

Human organizations work a similar way when they are infiltrated by
something seen as hostile or even just foreign. The foreignness is
automatically assumed to be hostile and treated as such, until it can be
assimilated or expelled. Instead of macrophages, the organization finds
a way to isolate the interloper, so that everyone knows it is unclean
and he knows he is not welcome. That is what we are seeing with Donald
Trump and the American political class. They have surrounded him and are
trying to isolate him.

The effort to isolate Trump started early, when anyone who took a job
with his campaign was treated like a leper. That turned out to be a
stroke of luck for Trump, as it forced him to hire outsiders, who were
not locked into old thinking. The only establishment man to support
Trump was Jeff Sessions and he is looking like a mole for the political
establishment. Even into the general election campaign, Trump was forced
to use outsiders and washed-up insiders like Kellyanne Conway, hoping
for a second chance.

Once he won the election, the political establishment adjusted its
tactics. Paul Ryan rallied the dweeb army inside the GOP to basically
ignore Trump’s agenda. That is why nothing happened on the border wall,
immigration, or infrastructure. The point is being made that working
with Trump would be death for any Republican. In fact, the leadership
went out of its way to make sure nothing Trump wanted was in the last
budget. The message was being sent that the people in charge saw Trump
as a hostile outsider to be resisted

Even as the evidence of a sedition plot to alter the 2016 campaign
mounts, you will notice that the grandees of the House GOP are stone
silent on the matter. If this sort of thing had happened to Obama by
Bush people, sniveling wimps like Paul Ryan would have been sent out on
every talk show to condemn Bush and apologize to Obama. Instead, the
only guys pushing the story are back bench types like David Nunez, who
has come to terms with the fact he has no future in the party. He has
nothing to lose so he can talk about it.

This is part of the planned isolation. It is not about policy or
ideology. That is the mistake many make when wondering why Trump’s own
party hates him. Certainly, the greedy bloodsuckers who bankroll the GOP
hate his immigration stance, but they love his trade and regulatory
positions. Trump has done more for the wallets of Silicon Valley and
Wall Street than any president in history. No, the reason official
Washington hates him is he is not them. He is an outsider, the
nullification of why they claim we need them.

Then you have the phony-baloney Mueller operation. The original point of
the thing was to cover-up the malfeasance of guys like Rosenstein,
Comey, Strzok, and the rest of the conspirators in the effort to subvert
the last election. It has quickly become a weapon to attack anyone
associated with Trump. The whole point of going after Michael Cohen, for
example, is to send a message to everyone in the private sector with
ties to Trump. The Manafort case is the modern equivalent of the show
trials during Stalin’s purges.

It is a bit ironic that the left is now trying to paint Trump as Nixon.
It is almost as if it is a coordinated narrative.
[This](https://www.kystandard.com/content/column-there-again-cancer-presidency)
and
[this](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/a-cancer-on-the-presidency/2018/08/23/e0b7fad4-a710-11e8-97ce-cc9042272f07_story.html?utm_term=.ee70d200ad85)
are surely coincidental. After all, the left ran Nixon out of town for
just mentioning stuff that we now know President Obama was doing in the
final years of his presidency, but consistency and accuracy are not the
issue. Like Nixon, the left hates Trump because he dares speak for the
dispossessed. He may be a billionaire, but he talks like a commoner and
speaks for the forgotten white American.

The result thus far is a stalemate. Unlike Nixon, Trump is not careless
in his dealings, and he seems to know what he is facing. Team Trump is
like defenders of a city, surrounded on all sides, but strong enough to
repel an assault. Official Washington is the besieger, camped outside
the walls not entirely sure how to proceed. They think they can wait it
out, but supplies are not infinite. They also have to spend time and
resources policing their berserkers, who keep rushing to the walls. Both
sides make noise, but nothing happens.

What should worry the establishment is they have thrown everything they
can at the walls, but Trump remains popular. In fact, he is more popular
now than when he took office and more popular than Obama and Bush at
similar points. It is why the Democrats are trying to tamp down
impeachment talk. They know this is exactly the sort of thing that will
motivate Trump voters in November. It is why the Prog media is full of
blue wave stories. They are hoping they can gaslight the typical GOP
voter into staying home in November.

For those still clinging to the idea of old America, with the orderly
resolution of disputes through orderly elections, the only good result
is one where Trump folds and decides to sign off on the neoliberal
agenda. If Trump gave up on the wall and his immigration push, his base
would abandon him, and the great replacement could accelerate. There is
no scenario where the people in charge peacefully go along with doing
what is best for heritage Americans. There is no reasoning with fanatics
and hired killers.

The fact is the ruling class of America despises Trump and see him as a
traitor to their class. His willingness to speak for heritage Americans,
people the rulers now see as hostile and foreign, is unforgivable. He is
the foreign object in the political body. That is why they see him a
cancer on modern politics. There is no living with cancer, at least not
for long. It is either killed, removed or it kills you. That is how our
rulers see us and it is how they see Trump. The siege continues until it
is broken, or the walls are breached.
