---
title: "Travelogue: Normieville"
date: "2018-10-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15261"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15261"
---

I have been traveling this week to the lands where the great white
normie is most common, which means the Midwest and Southwest. If you do
not travel or your travel is limited to the coasts, it is easy to forget
that America is a big country with a diverse culture. As I am fond of
saying, it is a mansion with many rooms. Even though we have a lot in
common, there are a lot of differences between the regions. Put another
way, we already had all the diversity we needed. There was no reason to
import more of it.

Unlike the coasts, the Midwest and southwest is where you can still find
lots of heritage America and lots of heritage Americans. In the upper
Midwest, there is an early 1960’s vibe to things that you do not get on
the coast. I am speaking culturally, not technologically or materially.
They have all the same stuff everyone else has. The Southwest has the
old Mex-American – Western culture, but layered over it is the Midwest
culture that reflects the people who moved there by the millions the
last few decades.

The result for me this week was like stepping back in time. That is not
to say these people are throwbacks. It is just that the echoes of old
America can still be heard when socializing and even doing business.
They still trade business cards at conferences and enjoy wearing name
tags. They will walk right up to you and start using your name, having
read it off your name tag. There is a genuineness about the people of
the Midwest you rarely see on the coasts these days. It is all very
wholesome and normal…

I did a little drinking with a guy from Minnesota, who spent a
considerable amount of time telling me about the softball team he
sponsors. His daughter used to play on the team, but he continued to
sponsor the team after she moved on. He sounded like a character from
the movie Fargo, so it added to the old-world charm. I could not help
but wonder why anyone thought this sort of community spirit needed to be
replaced with the crude transactionalism of cosmopolitan globalism, but
then I remembered who was behind it…

I was amused in the airport over the weekend by the people watching the
Kavanaugh vote on the big television screens. The airport is a good
reminder that very few people watch CNN and that most people ignore
politics. The big screen had a few young single women watching the vote,
one was in tears. A smaller screen had the Texas – Oklahoma football
game on and it was surrounded by people cheering the game. It is a nice
reminder that to most people, these events are not all that important or
emotional…

The funny thing that I learned is that the rank-and-file liberal male
really does think Kavanaugh is a serial rapist. I ran into a group of
guys from Northern California who described themselves as liberal
Republicans. They really wanted me to know they were sick to their
stomach about what was happening in Washington, especially with what
Trump is doing to the Republicans party. They really seemed to be
convinced that Kavanaugh spends his nights stalking and raping
middle-aged white women

It is an odd form of virtue signaling, because it has no audience. I
asked one of them why he bothers being in a party that opposes
everything he supports, when he could join the other party. California
is a one-party state now, for the most part. It is an obvious question
that they apparently did not consider, but they did not like me asking
it. I suspect this type has been doing the concern troll act for so long
it is as much a part of who they are as breathing and walking upright.
They no longer realize it is a pose…

At dinner one night I was seated next to a young guy, and he revealed
that he had an interest in the human sciences. We talked a bit, and he
was floored to hear that I did not think environment has much to do with
how you turn out. I was surprised at first, given that he is bright and
has an interest in the subject, but then I remembered that he is of a
generation that has been immersed in the blank slate theology. I did my
best to red pill him on some things, but the presence of heresy vexed
him greatly. I felt like Lucifer…

For a long time, I resisted going to things like AmRen or Mencken
because I imagined them to be academic conferences full of old racists.
It was not the latter that worried me, but the former. I do not like
conferences. There is something old fashioned and dated about how they
are organized. I have been in the workplace for three decades now and
the business conference has not changed much, in terms of organization.
The same is true of the academic conference. It is still 1950’s America
with these things.

That said, there is no replacing in-person interaction. You inevitably
learn things about people that makes it possible to see them in three
dimensions. The internet and telephone do not allow for that. One event
I attended seemed to get that aspect and built the thing around the
socializing, rather than building the social elements around the event.
It was quite effective as it not only felt more modern but allowed to
people to customize the event to their tastes. The result was a much
more relaxed and enjoyable experience.

What occurred to me though is the old-style business or academic
conference was built on the assumption that you had a social life
outside of your professional life. Men had families. Women had kids.
People gained their social happiness outside of their work life, so at a
conference, it needed to be all business. Today, people work longer,
travel more and have disorderly personal lives. Work events are often
the times when they get to socialize and relax. Old world America would
not recognize us now…

Phoenix Arizona is the least authentic place on earth, I think. In fact,
most of the Southwest, including California, feels like the QVC of
cultures. Everything is new and everything is clean, relative to the
east coast. That said, there is something to say for everything being
new and in good working g order. Streets without craters is something we
do not have here in Lagos. You cannot beat the weather, which is why so
many Boomers moved there, but I like four seasons, so I will stay on the
coast I think…

I talked to a guy about California. I mentioned that half the state does
not speak English, and he responded by claiming the economy depends on
Mexican immigrants. I did not challenge him on it, as there would have
been no point. I mention it as a reminder that lots of white people
still believe the open borders mythology, because they still think the
point of life is increasing the GDP. They will literally sacrifice
themselves and their posterity to the economy god. A lifetime of worship
is hard to overcome…

I was drinking with some guys who were very nice and very Midwestern. I
noticed that they went to great pains to correct me when I said “black”
instead of “African American”, which I found rather annoying. No black
people use that ridiculous phrase, unless they are around whites.
Eventually they stopped and after a few drinks one asked me why I used
the term black. He asked in a hushed voice like he was asking me for
drugs. I told him that black people prefer black, so I use black. He was
quite shocked to hear it.

I have run into this a lot, and it is a good reminder that most white
and especially liberal white people, have no clue about how black people
live and think. Blacks have become objects of worship or objects of
fear. Even in the South, this cultural distance is starting to creep in
as they are whipped into conformity by the dominant culture. The people
who talk the most about race relations, know the least about it and they
have the least humanity toward black people. In the future, old racists
will be the last friend of the black man…
