---
title: "Somewhere To Run"
date: "2018-01-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Immigration
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12803"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12803"
---

One of the themes of [this post at American
Renaissance](https://www.amren.com/features/2018/01/nowhere-to-run-working-class-trump/),
was that there is no where for the race aware white person to go in
America. The war on whiteness is happening at every point on the social
structure and in every town in the country, even the rural areas where
whites dominate. Wherever white people congregate, a cosmopolitan
wrecker will be there to try and brown the place. Therefore, there is no
running away from the slow moving [white
genocide](http://www.claremont.org/crb/article/the-browning-of-america/)
being perpetrated on us by our rulers.

The generally accepted view of this process is it will play out in one
of two ways. One version has Team Brown, which is the coalition of
blacks, Hispanics, miscellaneous foreigners, Jews and white feminists,
will become the new ruling class. The alternative, the Alt-Right
version, holds that whites will become race aware and unite against the
dusky hordes to form an ethno-state. In fairness, there is a CivNat
version, which argues in favor of unicorn riding leprechauns, but no
adult takes them seriously.

Looking at the current fight over immigration, it is not hard to argue
with either vision of the future. [Team Brown is unwilling to give an
inch](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/29/opinion/east-germany-immigration-usa.html?rref=collection%2Fsectioncollection%2Fopinion-columnists&mtrref=www.unz.com&gwh=3AAFF67354B1E0DDD6B0BDFA604635E3&gwt=pay&assetType=opinion)
on their plans for unlimited non-white immigration. The only
justification for this is they are seeking to replace whites in America
via the miracle of open borders. Logic further dictates that even the
dumbest tricorn hat wearing BoomerCon will eventually wake up to this
reality. Think about how many people you know who were CivNat a decade
ago but are race realists today.

Neither of those scenarios sound appealing and that is an important
thing to keep in mind when looking down the road. Given enough time,
human organizations faced with two bad choices will evolve alternatives.
It is a natural result of seeking to mitigate the costs of each choice
by addressing the underlying premises. In the case of American racial
conflict, the underlying premise is that the future is a transcendent,
winner take all, fight that will be decided in Washington and imposed on
the rest of us.

That is not the only future and probably not the likely one. Look at
what is happening in the states. The other day I wrote about one of the
consequences of the marijuana legalization efforts at the state level.
Here we have, for the first time in generations, the states forcing
policy changes on the Federal government. In fact, the most likely
result is the states will force the Feds to retreat from this area of
civic life. The regulation of recreational drugs will be a local issue.
Replace “marijuana” with “discrimination” and the enormity is clear.

Another thing going on in the states is the idea of disaggregation. When
you look closely at the CalExit thing, what you see is not a
secessionist movement, but a reductionist movement. California is too
big to manage as a whole, so the culturally homogeneous areas will be
broken off from the culturally Progressive zones, to form at least two
states, but there is no reason the concept could not result in three or
four states. California has forty million people. Rhode Island has a
little over one million people.

What is going on in California is possible because of something that has
been going on with Progressives for the past thirty years. They have
been self-ghettoizing. The ethnic cleansing we see going on in coastal
cities is so Progressives can have swanky urban centers in which they
can live. [When you look at the last electoral
map,](http://brilliantmaps.com/2016-county-election-map/) at the county
level, you see the slow re-segregation of the country between Team Brown
in urban areas and Team America everywhere else. The blues will get
bluer while the reds get redder.

This cultural reorganization of America is undermining the premise of a
unified national culture dictated by our coastal elites. Therefore, that
winner take all fight is becoming less and less likely. Further, the
Progressive instinct to leave, unless they can dominate all others, an
instinct they inherited from their Puritan forebears, is one cause of
this reorganization. [It is why Progressives are talking about
abandoning the national
model](https://www.alternet.org/election-2016/it-time-consider-progressive-secession-vision-principled-nation-states-where)
in favor of the smaller, local, more autonomous model. Peaceful
separation, so to speak.

It is important to keep in mind that Team Brown seized on open borders
and mass immigration when they began to lose the support of white
ethnics. Progressives controlled the national government from the Civil
War forward but had to rely on urban white ethnics for building a
coalition. Once those voters started joining Team America, Team Brown
needed new voters and we got the 1965 Immigration Act. Then twenty years
later they built on it with the 1986 amnesty. Open borders are a
defensive strategy.

If Trump is able to strong arm Republicans into ending wholesale
immigration, Team Brown’s strategy for dominating the nation is
foreclosed. When even minor setbacks, like the 2016 election, results in
calls for retreat, it is reasonable to wonder if the Progressive
pendulum is about to swing the other way, away from national dominance
back toward local autonomy. It has been a little over two hundred years
since the [Hartford
Convention](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hartford_Convention). Perhaps
this is the end of a long cycle and the return to normalcy.
