---
title: "Old Men Who Fear Change"
date: "2018-08-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14738"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14738"
---

One of the first things I learned about conservatism, way back in the
before times, was that William F. Buckley made conservatism respectable.
In the 1980’s, Buckley became a rock star, riding the wave of enthusiasm
for Ronald Reagan. Like a lot of young men in that age, I was caught up
in it. Being a conservative was suddenly cool and everyone credited
Buckley for making it so. It was hard to argue with the claim. Bill
Buckley was a charming, intelligent and sophisticated guy. Who would not
want to be like Bill?

The part that no one seemed to notice back then, at least not the people
involved in the conservative movement, was that the whole point of the
thing was to make the people in it respectable, as judged by their
alleged opponents. Pretty much the only thing they really cared about
was being seen as respectable. It’s why guys like George Will were not
fans of Ronald Reagan initially. They worried that his earthy sense of
humor and popularity with normal people would not go over well with
their friends on the Left.

A big part of being respectable, at least in modern politics, is drawing
the line between yourself and those who are not respectable. In the
1980’s no one thought much about all the people that had been read out
of the conservative movement for guys like Bill Buckley to be
respectable. That was the thing though, by the 1980’s, conservatism was
nothing but drawing lines between the respectable and the unacceptable,
to be in good standing with the Left.

That all came to mind when I read [this
post](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/08/alex-jones-we-want-authorities-to-make-tough-decisions-for-us/)
by the[ Asness Chair in Applied
Liberty](http://www.aei.org/press/press-release-aei-fellow-jonah-goldberg-named-inaugural-holder-of-the-asness-chair-in-applied-liberty/).
It is the typical flip-flopping equivocation that is a Jonah Goldberg
column. If there are two sides to an issue, he will find a way take four
sides. Reading one of his columns is like watching a fish flop around on
the deck. The basic point of the column is that he fears conservatives
have not been vigilant enough in policing that line between themselves
and the people the Left finds offensive. Thus, the Alex Jones fiasco.

[His follow up
column](https://www.nationalreview.com/g-file/national-review-stood-against-irresponsible-right-from-very-beginning/)
is a call to war for his fellow conservatives. Well, it’s more like a
long love letter to Bill Kristol and the other paranoids of the
neoconservative cult. He provides a long bit of mythology about Buckley
and his fights with the anti-Semites. The reader is obviously supposed
to make the connection between those long dead bogeymen from the 1950’s
and the bogeymen currently haunting conservatism. In Goldberg’s telling,
his generation of conservatives are facing the same challenge as Buckley
did 70 years ago.

The amusing part is how Goldberg keeps trying to connect himself to guys
like James Burnham and Whittaker Chambers. Maybe being the Asness Chair
in Applied Liberty is going to his head. It is just another example of
the intellectual hollowness of Buckley conservatism. Chambers was a man
of great courage and integrity. Burnham was a brilliant thinker whose
ideas are still relevant today. Jonah Goldberg is a feckless airhead. He
would have been laughed out of the room by these men.

That aside, there’s a weird cargo cult vibe to all this. The so-called
conservatives don’t even bother to think about the arguments coming from
the right. They don’t even pretend to know about them. There was not a
single mention of the alt-right in National Review until Hillary Clinton
mentioned it. Instead, they carry on as if it is 1955 and they are
fighting a heroic battle against the John Birch Society. Goldberg’s post
has the feel of a man hoping he can make it all go away just by
performing all the old rituals.

It really is weird reading this stuff, given where we are now. These
guys could be excused for living in the past when the GOP was right
there with them. Five years ago, they had no reason to listen to their
critics. Times were good and the living was easy. Now, after their
audience has abandoned them and Trump is in the White House, their
stubborn adherence to a defunct set of arguments is weird. The National
Review crowd should be writing their columns while wearing leisure
suits.

The thing is, there are two types of conservatives. There are those who
seek only to maintain the status quo, regardless the current laws,
morals and behavior norms. Then there are the those who believe there is
transcendent moral order that corresponds to the natural order. The
Buckleyites were always of the first type. The reason they opposed the
Left was they feared losing their place at the table. It’s the same
reason they oppose the emerging national populists. They’re old men who
fear change.
