---
title: "Fresh Out Of Patriotism"
date: "2018-07-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14289"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14289"
---

In the spring, I went to opening day for the local sportsball team here
in Lagos. I am not a fan of the local team, but I still enjoy baseball.
Opening day is one of the great traditions of old America. Like
everything else in America, the oleaginous grifters in charge of us have
monetize the tradition, turning it into a tacky spectacle. If you can
look past that, it is a nice reminder of what it was like to have a real
country. What I could not look past or even tolerate, was the endless,
over the top appeals to patriotism.

Before the game, there were a number of demands to celebrate the armed
forces, “first responders” and schoolteachers, of all things. The claim
was that these “brave men and women defend our democracy.” Then there
was the singing of patriotic songs and the playing of the national
anthem. In the seventh inning, we had more singing of patriotic songs. I
have always been a bit sentimental with regards to patriotism, but I
found the whole thing revolting. I knew what it was like to live in
North Korea or Nazi Germany.

Now, a lot of the over-the-top patriotism is the aftermath of 9/11 and
the resulting culture war over the response to it. The neocons cleverly
couched their schemes in patriotic terms, painting their critics as
un-American. That worked, so the Left is now doing the same thing with
the great replacement. After all, America is a land of immigrants! You
will note that most displays of patriotism in the mass media rely on
people who “look like America” by not looking anything like Americans.
Patriotism has been turned on its head.

There is also the fact that the people in charge have nothing much to
offer us, so like any business with a bad product, they have invested in
marketing. This is a well-documented phenomenon in business. When a
company’s product is not selling, they ramp up the marketing, promising
that it is new and improved. That is the vibe I get with our ruling
class flag waving. You will note they never sell open borders and
globalism as something good for you. Instead, they appeal to your
patriotism, claiming it is good for the country.

The trouble with what they are selling is it contradicts the sales
pitch. If America is just a place where you earn a paycheck and buy
stuff, like a big shopping mall, why have any loyalty to it? Who has
ever had an emotional bond with a shopping center? If anyone can wander
in, become a citizen and vote, citizenship has no more value than a
validated parking ticket at the mall. In other words, the patriotism on
offer just ensures that patriotism becomes increasingly worthless, along
with our citizenship.

Patriotism, properly understood, is loyalty to the citizens who came
before you. The emotional draw is gratitude for what they bequeathed.
That implies a duty to preserve it for the next generation. If
citizenship is just a meaningless transaction, then those citizens who
came before us are no more important than the next guy who wanders over
the border. Put another way, according to our rulers, our ancestors are
strangers and so are our decedents. What possible reason would anyone
have to be loyal to strangers?

It is actually worse than that. The reason America is descending into a
transactional land of strangers is that our ancestors decided to piss it
all away. Why should anyone feel loyalty to the people who pushed
through the 1986 immigration act? Why should we want to preserve what
they passed onto us? If anything, we should take this day to dig up
their bones and smash them to bits on the capital mall. That sounds
harsh, but is there anything more monstrous than denying your decedents
a chance to live the life you lived?

There is another side to patriotism. That is loyalty to the
institutions. In a liberal democracy, the citizen respects the office,
even if he does not respect the man holding the office. Look around at
our institutions. They are just as corrupt as the men who are in charge
of them. No rational person can look at what is happening with the FBI
and not think the entire political class needs to meet Madame
Guillotine. After the last chop, send in the bulldozers to flatten the
place. Maybe salt the earth afterwards.

For most of my life, I was an easy mark, when it came to flag waving. I
believed the stuff they taught us in school and preached to us in the
media. Despite her flaws, I thought the ideal of America was worth
defending. The trouble is, the people in charge had other ideas. Like a
lot of people over the last dozen or so years, I have reconsidered a lot
of things. One of them is patriotism. You can be loyal to people, but
you cannot be loyal to ideas or institutions. That is a sucker’s play,
and I am not a sucker anymore.
