---
title: "Techno-Feudalism"
date: "2018-03-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13315"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13315"
---

Feudalism, in the most general sense, is a set of obligations between a
superior and a subordinate, based on land. The lord owns the land and
grants access to the land to vassals. The lord provides services like
protection and the imposition of order, while the vassal provides food
rents, military service and labor to the lord. In practice, a lord could
also be a vassal to a greater lord or a king. The result of this
combination of relationships is the system we know as feudalism, which
dominated Europe in the Middle Ages.

From the perspective of economics, the key components are land and
labor, with land being the critical one. For most of human history,
labor was interchangeable. German speaking peasants working estates in
France were the same as Frankish speaking peasants. Wars were fought
over land, so chasing off the other guy’s peasants, in order to take his
land, made perfect sense. The land was the thing of value, while the
labor that worked it was a commodity. The supply of peasants was never a
problem.

The politics of a feudal system are simple. The arrangements were
designed to serve the needs of the warrior nobility at the top the
system. The lords may serve a king, but they also serve one another in
defending and perpetuating the system. It is why innovation was often
seen as a threat. If one lord could get much more from his fief, than
the other lords, or even the king, then the power relationships all
change. Feudalism, by nature, must be highly conservative, as it is
based on legal and economic relationships never changing.

The other thing worth noting is that feudalism arises when an empire
begins to decline or collapse. The central authority is no longer able
to maintain order, so local power centers emerge that can protect land
and impose order. Since no single local lord can impose order over his
rivals, a system of rules and obligations evolve to handle relations
between the local power centers. In other words, feudalism is what comes
after the collapse of central authority. It is a return to a default
position of local control and local autonomy.

The relevance of this to our age is that we are at the end of the
[liberal
consensus](https://www.journalofdemocracy.org/sites/default/files/Krastev-18-4.pdf)
or maybe even at the end of [liberal
democracy](http://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/announcing-the-death-of-classical-liberalism/).
The West is not an empire, in the way Rome was an empire, but there is
no doubt that the last five hundred years of human history has been
about the rise of Europeans and the evolution of European social order.
The liberal order is base upon the nation state, which roughly
corresponds to a single ethnicity. The people of that state own and
control the assets of the state, picking rulers from their own people.

The role of the state has been the single focus of Western intellectuals
since the Enlightenment. The evolution of economic arrangements,
political arrangements and international arrangements, have all been in
the context of the state. What is called the liberal consensus is the
combination of all these things, based on each state having some form of
liberal democracy. A nation gets to be in the liberal order if it holds
elections and has a form of representative government, which is
notionally responsive to its people.

What has become increasingly obvious, is that private entities now
perform many of the duties formerly delegated to the state. Regulating
political speech, has always been the job of the government, but now it
is tech companies serving that role. Similarly, it used to be the job of
government to control the financial system, even at the retail level.
Today, firms like  PayPal or Citi Bank are in charge of regulating and
controlling access to the financial system. Even central banks now
operate outside of national governments.

The result of this delegation of power is that the national authority is
losing power over the societies it allegedly rules. This may be the
natural result of globalism. As the states delegate important duties to
international authorities, they lose the power to impose order
domestically. The result is they must rely on private interests that are
not constrained by constitutions and customs. In order for government to
maintain the illusion of power, they have ceded domestic power to
multinationals and tech giants, that they claim to regulate.

In feudalism, the political relationships between the warrior elite were
about controlling land and defending it from those outside the alliance.
The subjects working the land were not all that important. The post
national world we are entering will be one where the global tech and
finance giants control the flow of information, working with one another
to maintain control of the system. Because a feudal system must be
conservative, defending this new system will mean stamping out dissent
and alternatives to the dominant platforms.

The thing about the feudal order was how effective it was at preserving
itself. At the dawn of the French Revolution, as France began to emerge
from feudalism, most people living in what was then France, did not
speak French. They spoke regional dialects that dated back, in some
cases, to the Roman Empire. Given the ability of tech giants to regulate
the flow of information, it is reasonable to think they will be better
at controlling and isolating people, as a form of defense in depth.
Everyone will live on a data manor.
