---
title: "The Pale Man’s Burden"
date: "2018-11-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15668"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15668"
---

Georgia is one of the places to watch if you want to get a partial
glimpse into the future, as it is 61% white, but a growing portion of
its white population is from outside the south. The Atlanta area has
grown like a weed and much of the growth has come from attracting
outsiders. A big chunk of those outsiders are Hispanics, so the state
has a little bit of everything, as far as demographic challenges. As a
result, it will be one of the first states to realize democracy cannot
work in a multi-racial, multi-ethnic society.

[This
story](https://www.citylab.com/equity/2018/11/eagles-landing-vote-secede-stockbridge-georgia/575371/)
from the past election is a good example of something that pale-folk
will come to realize all over the country. That is, you can run out of
places to hide. Georgia “solved” the problems of Atlanta by allowing the
better parts to secede from the city proper, thus avoiding the
challenges of being pale in a diverse city. This concept was applied to
other areas that found themselves with a pale tax base, governed by a
vibrant majority. Instead, the residents fleeing the jurisdiction, the
jurisdiction fled the people, so to speak.

As is the case with all such schemes, the Left soon figures out how to
defeat them and that seems to be the case with this latest proposal. The
author of that piece is an anti-white, so he is a useful example of the
attitudes the pale-folk will face in the future, as they seek out new
ways to maintain their own communities. The hostile tone masks an
important assumption among the diverse. That is, it is not that they
oppose free association. It is that the diverse have a right to be near
pale folk.

It is a strange alteration in the dynamics of race relations that goes
unremarked, because the people in charge are still locked in another
era. They frame everything as a fight over denying the diverse the same
access as the pale. That shipped sailed a long time ago, as the diverse
now have greater access than the pale. Even new arrivals from lands over
the horizon have special access. Every federal government IT contractor
is from South Asia for a reason. That is right, Indians have a special
door just like blacks.

There are so many special doors now, all of which reading “no white men
may pass” that it has become a racket. There are firms around Washington
that exist just to provide diversity to the government contractor. They
are not explicit, but it is the thing everyone knows, but no one says.
After generations of this stuff, no one thinks about it anymore. The
only people fighting it are East Asians at Harvard, who are basically
squabbling with other diverse people over how to slice up the pie.
Otherwise, anti-white is the norm.

The new reality that has gone unremarked is something you get a glimpse
of in that story out of Georgia. The diverse now demand access to the
pale. Even if the pale find some way to carve out their own places, but
remain within the law, the diverse will find some way to force their way
inside. In other words, the Danegeld of the Civil Rights Movement, which
was affirmative action, was not enough. It turns out Kipling was right
about the Danegeld. Once you have paid the diverse, you never get rid of
the diverse.

That is what makes Georgia an interesting case to follow. In other
jurisdictions, the pale simply keep moving. In Lagos on the Chesapeake,
the pale first decamped to the first suburbs, just on the edge of the
city. Pale-folk could still bus into jobs in the city but avoid being
killed on their own streets at night. But then the diverse could take
the same buses out to the suburbs, so the pale moved further away. Those
inner suburbs decayed, and many are now dumping grounds for Hispanics
and Africans.

As we saw in the Obama years, the people in charge are plotting to solve
this problem with housing laws. [The usual
suspects](https://educationpost.org/school-segregation-is-no-accident-and-this-professor-says-its-because-of-our-racist-housing-policies/)
have been hard at work on this for a couple of decades at least. The
Obama Administration plan called Affirmative Housing or some such
nonsense, was basically an effort to compel pale-folk to live among the
diverse, by forcing them to have the diverse in their areas. In other
words, the same logic they use to diversify schools would be applied to
pale areas to make them vibrant.

The underlying assumption of all of this is that the diverse have a
natural right to access the pale. We have gone from a mindset that says
the diverse should have the same rules as the pale, a sensible thing on
the surface, to a mindset that treats the pale-folk as a public good, to
which the diverse have a natural right. Given the use of disparate
impact law, it is not going to be long before the pale will be
responsible for making sure they make themselves available to the
diverse. They will have to prove they are accessible.

The Civil Rights Movement was always about the pale people. The usual
suspects just used blacks as a weapon in their war on pale people. Most
people get that but still cling to the old pale ideas about equality of
access and so forth. Those habits of mind that make pale society so
successful, make pale societies vulnerable. If pale-folk have had a
place to run, they have preferred to hold onto those old pale ideals,
rather than face the reality of what is happening. Disorganized retreat
before dishonor!

As we see in Georgia and other places, the trap is slamming shut and the
pale will no longer have the luxury of heading off for paler pastures.
That is part of what sparked the emergence of the alt-right. It was
suburban pale boys suddenly facing the reality of diversity. They found
out that libertarianism is no match for organized vibrancy and that
dropped the scales from their eyes. The pale man’s burden is an
unsustainable Danegeld that just makes the final resolution that much
more costly.
