---
title: "The Between Age"
date: "2018-11-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15595"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15595"
---

One of the things people come to realize, when they make the journey to
this side of the great divide, is that America lacks an authentic Right.
In fact, it may have always lacked an authentic Right, as the country
was formed by people who explicitly rejected the ideal of inherited rule
and a hierarchical society. That is certainly debatable, but what is not
debatable is the fact that modern America lacks an authentic opposition
to the prevailing orthodoxy, which is founded in radical egalitarianism
and the blank slate.

Since Gettysburg, Progressivism has been ascendant, first controlling
the federal state, then slowly and methodically taking total control of
the culture and politics. It’s opponent, what [Robert Louis
Dabney](https://www.counter-currents.com/2012/11/robert-lewis-dabney-on-conservatism/)
called Northern Conservatism, what we just call conservatism, was never
an authentic Right, but “merely the shadow that follows Radicalism as it
moves forward towards perdition.” Instead of offering an alternative
vision of society, the American right offers a series of tweaks and
modifications to the Progressive vision.

The result is that the Left comes up with some new radical idea,
conservatives throw their dresses over their heads and a make big deal
out of opposing it. They rarely offer an alternative, in the case of a
real public policy debate. If they do offer an alternative, it is one
that accepts the morality that is driving the Left’s interest in the
subject. The result is the “opposition” to every radical idea is just a
different radical idea, that is rooted in the radical morality of the
Left. The obvious example is homosexual marriage.

In this age of media saturation, the phenomenon described by Dabney a
century ago can be seen playing out in compressed time on the internet.
For example, the Left is in the process of stealing the Florida
election, by using wholesale fraud and rule breaking. The response from
the so-called conservatives is ridiculous nonsense like [this post at
the American
Spectator](https://spectator.us/election-re-counts-are-a-sign-of-a-heathy-democracy/).
To quote Dabney again, “The resisted novelty of yesterday is today one
of the accepted principles of conservatism.”

The tone and content of the piece is so stunningly obtuse that it seems
contrived, until you step back and think about how this has been the
pattern for as long as anyone reading this has been alive. It is why the
alt-right coined the term “cuck” and why it stung so-called
conservatives. It perfectly describes the so-called opposition. Their
first instinct is to come up with some way to explain away the latest
Progressive outrage. Their obsequiousness to so repugnant, it suggests a
total lack of the very essence of what defines a man.

Of course, there is the philosophical issue. An actual opposition would
note that democracy must result in the sort of circus we keep seeing in
our elections. They would also note that a system designed to appeal to
the lowest common denominator must always result in the worst possible
answer. At the minimum, an authentic opposition would point out that the
Left sees democracy as a bus they can ride to power. Once in power,
their goal is corrupt and destroy it so there can be no legitimate
challenge to their rule.

Another example of this instinct to grovel is from [Joel Pollak at
Breitbart](https://www.breitbart.com/the-media/2018/11/18/pollak-acostas-victory-counters-media-narrative-about-trump/).
We now live in an age where the federal courts say the President cannot
decide who gets a press pass into the White House, but the court is
perfectly OK with big banks shutting people off from the financial
system because they hold the wrong opinions. An authentic opposition
would immediately point out the absurd contradictions of the dadaist
legal system constructed by the Left. Instead, the response is to argue
this latest outrage is a conservative principle.

The debate about where to place fascism on the modern political scale is
mostly pointless, but it does underscore the problem of today. The
people feverishly arguing that “the liberals are the real Nazis” do so
by first accepting the Progressive moral framework. As a result, like
someone trying to build a ship in a bottle, they are reduced to working
within arbitrary confines to achieve something with only ornamental
value. They do not even notice that they are doing it, because that
habit of mind has been institutionalized.

That said, the debate does open the mind to the idea of there being no
authentic alternative, because it was killed off in the Enlightenment.
As a result, the great debate, the great ideological competition, has
all been within radicalism. Bolshevism, liberal democracy, and fascism
were all competing with one another. After a bloody century, liberal
democracy came out as the unchallenged political philosophy. Because it
evolved as a response and now lacks an authentic challenger, it is
slowly spinning out of control.

In the meantime, we live in this between age, where liberal democracy is
universal and unchallenged, but decaying into madness. It is why the
aesthetic resembles the inside of a mental ward, and the players carry
on doing the same thing over and over, but in an increasingly bizarre
fashion. Perhaps Fukuyama was not completely wrong. Instead of it being
the end of history, maybe it is just the end of liberal democracy. It
was something that could only exist in contrast to the more depraved
variations of Rousseauism.
