---
title: "The Wrong Stuff"
date: "2018-08-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14873"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14873"
---

A regular feature of the news, going back decades, is how the military
is struggling to meet its enlistment goals. One reason for this is the
Left’s antiwar past, which is a big part of their origin myth. The
geezers in the cult still continue about how they protested the war in
college. There is also the fact that the Left needs to believe the tide
is turning their way and the people are rushing to their banner. That
means the sort of white men who join the service are in decline. The
result is regular stories about the lack of recruits.

The thing is though, volunteer armies do not have a great history. In
the French Revolution, there were lots of people ready to fight for the
revolution, but nowhere near enough to man the massive armies required
to fight the rest of Europe. Wide-scale conscription was necessary to
meet demand. The same was true during the Napoleonic Wars. In the 20th
century, both world wars were fought with conscripts. For example, 70%
of the US soldiers were drafted, despite massive public relations
efforts to get men to enlist.

America has been running the world with a volunteer army for about fifty
years now, but the cost has been enormous. Official spending numbers put
the defense budget at about $600 billion per year, but lots of stuff is
off-budget. The microprocessor has also been the great force multiplier.
The United States has the most technologically advanced war machine in
history and a fighting ethos to go with it. That just raises the cost of
operations, relative to the overall fighting strength, in terms of
manpower and material.

As a result, there is a general consensus that the current US military
configuration is inadequate to continue ruling the world. This is a big
part of Trump’s push to delegate some of the tasks to Europe and Asia.
There really is no reason why the EU countries need any support from the
US to police the Continent. The Russians have nukes, but the bear is
poor, and the people are in no condition to fight a war. In Asia, the
Japanese and South Koreans could do much more to help deal with Chinese
aggression.

There is another problem though, one that the Europeans have, but are
not willing to acknowledge. That is the lack of men willing and able to
fight. This is problem American warmongers are beginning to notice in
America. [Right-wing
Progressives](https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/military-recruitment-problem-overblown/)
are noticing that the struggle to meet enlistment goals are not just
rhetorical. The military is struggling to find young men willing and
able to do the work of a modern soldier. Those with the talent are
wising up to the reality of this age and the rest simply have the wrong
stuff.

For starters, the sorts of men excited about [taking orders from a
girl](https://www.marinecorpstimes.com/news/your-marine-corps/2018/06/25/marine-ground-combat-arms-unit-gets-its-first-woman-commander/)
are not the sorts of men you want fighting your wars. That only works in
Hollywood propaganda. That propaganda, however, has had an impact on the
culture. As a result, a decreasing number of men are physically able to
meet the minimum requirements. A boy who spent his formative years
playing video games and being asked if he would prefer to wear a dress,
is unlikely to have the ability to make it through basic, much less be a
good soldier.

Then you have the fact that white guys are starting to figure out that
the government is their enemy, so signing up to fight for the government
is not in their interests. Part of it is the fact that the public has
figured out that the neocon response to 9/11 was a scam. They did not
care about keeping the country safe from Islam. They only cared about
keeping Israel safe from Islam. Importing millions of Muslims after 9/11
did not go unnoticed. A volunteer army relies on patriotism to fill the
ranks. Fighting for strangers does not cut it.

There is also the fact that whites are getting wise to what’s happening
and public trust is plummeting. A volunteer army not only relies on
patriotism, but it relies on civic duty. It is why we still call
military service a duty. Some still call politics “public service” even
though no one is so naive these days. The point is, like patriotism,
civic nationalism is a social contract. Both parties have to uphold
their end of the deal in order for it to work. It is why blacks lack
patriotism, and they have never been willing to join the military.

The black issue is one to understand. We are constantly bombarded with
propaganda about the heroic blacks in the military, but blacks have
always been underrepresented in the services. Blacks, of course, are
leading the charge against the national anthem. [It is not just a stunt
by coddled
athletes](https://www.ajc.com/news/breaking-news/atlanta-school-eliminates-morning-pledge-allegiance-recitation/B073XeDsSGP0khan64taOJ/).
Blacks in America have never felt a sense of duty to the country, which
makes perfect sense, given the nature of black identity. If you see
society as dominated by the people you hate, why would you feel loyalty
to society?

Then you have the much-celebrated browning of America. As of the last
census, the majority of people under-18 are non-white. By the next
census, it will be distinctly non-white. War fighting is a young man’s
game. A military built to run on smart white guys with a sense of duty
is not going to function when it has to rely on non-whites, who despise
their host population. Inevitably, the military is going to start
looking like a Chicano version of Stripes. No one says it, but everyone
in charge sees the problem.

The response will be a greater reliance on high technology, but the cost
of the robot warrior goes up faster than his effectiveness. No one
bothers to notice that the space age war machine of the Unites States
has been fought to a standstill by cave dwelling archaics in
Afghanistan. Trillions have been spent trying to outsmart the locals and
the graveyard of empires is going to win anyway. In the end, there is no
replacement for human capital and there is no way to replace the premier
human capital with cheap knockoffs from overseas.
