---
title: "Letters To Z Man"
date: "2018-11-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15606"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15606"
---

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Power-Hour.png"
decoding="async" width="600" height="233" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Power-Hour.png)

With what will be an extended weekend ahead of me, I decided to post the
podcast early this week. That way, if you are stuck in traffic or
waiting in an airport, you can pass the time listening to my soothing
voice. Given that tomorrow is Thanksgiving, and I will be slipping out
early today for the long weekend, I figured I should close up shop for
the week and get this up on Wednesday. I am not sure if I will be
posting anything over the weekend, but I often say that and end up
posting things anyway. Still, the plan is to take a break.

I have also been feeling a bit guilty about letting the e-mail pile up.
I am getting more mail as the audience grows. Much of it comes from the
podcast now. I think most readers will post a question on the site, but
many listeners get the show through iTunes, Spotify and other platforms
that now syndicate the podcast. The result is I am getting more e-mail
related to the podcast. I try to read all of it and respond, but I am
woefully behind and often do not get to it until weeks later. I have a
very busy schedule these days.

What I decided to do a few months back is organize them into similar
topics and then do a post answering the most common questions. Then it
occurred to me that it could be a podcast, for a week when I want to do
something light. There is no better time for that than before a holiday.
The topics are the common ones, but also ones I wanted to address for
one reason or another. I get some interesting questions from time to
time. A little artistic license has been employed to avoid outing anyone
or offending anyone.

You will note that there is no table of contents. That is because it is
just one sixty-minute segment this week. That means no explosions, for
those who have complained about that in the past. Never let it be said
that I am not generous to my critics. I recorded this whole thing
straight through with very little editing. I did have to take a break to
get a drink or clear my throat, but otherwise it is one straight hour of
me talking. That was a lot harder than I expected. Talking to yourself
for an hour is not as easy as it sounds.

This week I have the usual variety of items in the now standard format.
Spreaker has the full show. I am up on Google Play now, so the Android
commies can take me along when out disrespecting the country. I am on
iTunes, which means the Apple Nazis can listen to me on their Hitler
phones. The anarchists can catch me on iHeart Radio. YouTube also has
the full podcast. Of course, there is a download link below. I am now on
Spotify, so the millennials can tune in when not sobbing over white
privilege and toxic masculinity.

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/16273525/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>

<a
href="https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/the-z-blog-power-hour/id1262799640?mt=2"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes Page</a>

<a
href="https://open.spotify.com/show/5BjtT6oNlylv36FNXZxiIc?si=GaW-JFa6RHuOHiF2iHQO3Q"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Spotify</a>

<a
href="https://playmusic.app.goo.gl/?ibi=com.google.PlayMusic&amp;isi=691797987&amp;ius=googleplaymusic&amp;link=https://play.google.com/music/m/Ign2aae4ofqi7ih4zik5ipqtv3y?t%3DThe_Z_Blog_Power_Hour%26pcampaignid%3DMKT-na-all-co-pr-mu-pod-16"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Google Play Link</a>

<a href="https://www.iheart.com/podcast/the-z-blog-power-hour-29246491/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">iHeart Radio</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

The player is loading ...

<span class="widget_spinner dark"></span>

**<u>Full Show On YouTube</u>**
