---
title: "Free Association & Equality Before The Law"
date: "2018-05-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13981"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13981"
---

If you are going to pick one thing that is a must-have for a liberal
western society, the most likely choice is equality before the law.
Things like free speech, elections and private property are important,
but they are dependent upon equality before the law. After all, if the
ruling class has privilege over everyone else in the law, which will
turn to an advantage in disputes over property, politics and even
speech. If you look at the list of “rights” we consider to be essential
to a civil society, all of them count on equality before the law.

Now, simply having equality before the law does not make for a liberal
society. In theory, you could have a society with no property rights at
all and still have equality before the law. A communist society, in
which all property is held by the public and administered by the state,
could have legal equality. Similarly, you could have a society with
highly restricted speech and still have legal equality, as long as the
speech limits were universally applied and enforced. In other words,
equality before the law is not enough.

Obviously, equal justice may be a fundamental requirement of a liberal
society, but you need other stuff to make it work. Property rights,
enforcement of contracts, freedom of expression and the other items we
tend to associate with civil liberty. Even though they cannot exist
without equality before the law, a liberal society cannot exist without
all those add-on items. This is basic civics, so what about the things
that must exist in order for a society to maintain equality before the
law? What are its necessary accessories?

The correct answer here is freedom of association. After all, you can
have equality before the law along with limits on other rights like
speech, as long as they are universally applied. Logically, there is no
way to evenly administer limits on association, beyond broad categories
like segregation. Even there, the law is forced to treat one group
differently from others. This is the crux of Brown v. Board of
Education. The material equality of education facilities did not alter
the fact that segregation treated blacks unequally.

You cannot have equal justice without free association, for the simple
reason the law must always put one citizen ahead of another, in order to
limit association. Telling the tavern owner he cannot serve Koreans
penalizes the Korean, the tavern owner or possibly the other tavern
patrons. It really does not matter who is or is not punished, as the
only possible intent of the law is a bias against one group in favor of
another group. There can be no equitable reason for placing such
limitations on citizens.

This is why America is rapidly sliding away from liberal democracy into
something closer to a corporate oligarchy. Once free association was
abandoned in the 1960’s, it opened the door to endless meddling by the
managerial state in the rights of the citizens. If the people can no
longer decide with whom they wish to associate, or not associate, they
can no longer have the right to free expression. After all, if you are
forcing people together who do not wish to be together, you better
monitor their speech. Otherwise, you get a bloodbath.

Put another way, the reason that Christian bakers are being forced at
gun point to bake cakes for people they see as degenerates is the state
has no other choice. Once you dispense with freedom of association, you
abandon equality before the law. It also means ever-splintering
minorities are incentivized to demand special privileges from the state,
by forcing the court to choose between groups. The homosexual terrorists
are attacking Christians, so they can get their group status set above
that of Christians.

This explains the fracturing of American public life and the increasing
anti-white hostility we see in our popular culture. Once you abandon
equality before the law, people rationally seek group identity in order
to press for *privileges*. The arbitrariness of the law creates the
appearance of a zero-sum game, in which the gains of one group must come
at the expense of another. In the increasingly lawless free-for-all that
is modern America, the rational thing for non-whites to do is agitate to
get their piece of the crumbling white pie.

Of course, the reason America abandoned free association in the middle
of the last century was in an effort to accommodate the minority black
population. It is also why Continental societies have never bothered
with free association. Wherever there are minority populations, the
majority will inevitably impose its will on that minority, simply in the
course of pursuing its own rational interests. Blacks in America can
only be integrated by force, against the will of the white majority.
That is what happened last century.

This is probably why the managerial class has made a fetish of the
downstream items we associate with liberal society, like voting, and
sacralized the positions within the political class. Any call to reform
the political system and every criticism of the powerful is met with
howls about “defending our democracy.” Since we now have an illiberal
system, the people in charge have reached their status by illiberal
means. Therefore, their legitimacy is not self-authenticating. The
hooting about democracy is a defense mechanism.

One of the puzzles the libertarians have never un-puzzled is how a
society can go from a non-libertarian state to a libertarian one,
without a violent, miraculous blood bath. Even in theory, a libertarian
state must be a starting point of a society. Once it transitions from
that condition, it can never go back. Something similar is most likely
true with regards to free association and equality before the law. Once
these are abandoned, the interests opposed to their return grow, making
a peaceful transition back to the lawful state impossible.

As a matter of simple logic, a return to liberal society now means
revolution.
