---
title: "The New Zeros"
date: "2018-01-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12507"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12507"
---

In the coming decades, Western nations are going to be faced with a
number of problems stemming from the technological revolution. We are
now post-scarcity societies, where we have more than enough food,
medicine and housing for our citizens and even some non-citizens. The
pruning force of scarcity is no longer doing its magic to keep the
population fit or even sensible. The next big problem is what to do with
the tens of millions of extra humans, no longer needed to contribute to
society.

The hardest part of the automation wave will simply be language. What do
you call people who no longer have any purpose, in terms of producing
goods and services through their labor? For as long as anyone has been
alive, the small slice of the population that has fit this definition
could simply be dismissed. The underclass is assumed to be lazy or
anti-social. Trying to fix this has been a good way to keep the useless
off-spring of the middle classes busy in social work.

When the numbers swell as automation eliminates the need for human labor
in wide swaths of the economy, it will be impossible to dismiss the
idle. When many of the idle are people who formerly occupied office jobs
or semi-skilled laboring positions, blaming their condition on a lack of
ambition is not going to be possible. The current labor participation
rate is about 63% right now. In the coming decades, that number will
fall below 50% due to automation and demographics.

The other challenge is how to support the swelling ranks of the useless
in a way that keeps them from causing trouble. The hot idea currently is
[the universal basic
income](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/12/28/universal-basic-income-why-some-countries-are-seriously-considering-handing-out-free-money.html),
which is being experimented with in Finland. In the US, some states are
talking about how to replace their welfare programs with something
simpler like the UBI. Libertarian economists like the idea of the UBI,
because it theoretically allows the under classes to participate in the
market economy, unencumbered by the state.

The trouble with this idea is math. If all citizens have a floor, in
terms of their basic income, whatever that floor is, will be the new
zero. The only possible way to have a negative income, in real terms, is
if someone is paying their employer. There may be some bizarre
situations where that exists, but in the main, zero is the smallest
number that can appear in box \#1 of your W2. If that number is bumped
up by the UBI, that becomes the new zero, the lowest possible.

Imagine the government decides to help BMW sell more cars, so they offer
every citizen $5000 if they spend it on a BMW, rather than some other
car. BMW is now facing a wave of people coming into American dealerships
toting a $5,000 check. The logical thing for BMW to do is raise the
price of their low end models by $5000. That way, they do not increase
production costs, but they increase the profit per car. In effect, the
floor for entry level buyers was just raised by $5000 by the government.

There is a fairly good real world example of this. The government
decided to do something to help working class people get into college.
Since many need remedial help, before taking on college work, the scheme
was to offer a subsidy to be used for community colleges. The students
would use the money to prep for college then head off to a four year
university, presumably using loans and aid at that level. The result,
however, was [the community colleges just raised their
tuition](https://www.newyorkfed.org/medialibrary/media/research/staff_reports/sr733.pdf).

The UBI would most likely follow the same pattern. By guaranteeing that
no one would earn less than some amount, in lieu of traditional welfare
payments, the absolute floor becomes the subsidy level. In effect, the
new zero becomes the subsidy so all other wages would be based off that
number. It is really no different than printing up money and dropping it
from helicopters into the ghetto. The UBI would be as inflationary as
debasing the currency.

The truth is the zeroes that our rulers will be forced to address are
zero population growth and zero TFR among the surplus populations. For
example, you could fix Baltimore in a generation with mandatory Norplant
for the underclass. A generation of childless females means the last
generation of 80 IQ residents. The reason Baltimore is a violent city is
not an excess of hard working, college educated STEM workers, but a
surplus of violent stupid people.

It also means zero immigration. When 80% of todayâ€™s immigrants end up on
public assistance, the immigrants of tomorrow will be nothing more than
useless people to police, feed and house. Japan is the model to follow.
They have no immigration and their population levels are about to drop
in the coming decades. They are the only nation on earth that is truly
ready for the automated future, as they have the demographics to meet a
shrinking demand for labor.

There is one other zero and that is zero participation. The fact is the
free-market and democracy work when the right answer is not obvious. As
automation takes over more and more tasks, the number of issues that
need to be hashed out collectively will diminish. Rule by robot means
exactly that, which means voting and popular government will have to be
reconsidered. What is the point of being mayor when there are no more
patronage jobs to dole out to friends and family?
