---
title: "Letter To The Antisemites"
date: "2018-03-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Greatest Hits
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13168"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13168"
---

From time to time, I am approached by an anti-Semite hoping to convince
me to join their thing. Most people, of course, think antisemitism is
the worst, but anti-Semites think otherwise. Recently, a person calling
himself Lawrence has showed up in the comment section, inviting me to
join the world of antisemitism. Given some posts related to this topic
are in the queue, I thought it was a good time to respond to this
generous invitation to become an anti-Semite.

First off, I do not think antisemitism is a great crime against
humanity. I once worked for a guy who hated Greeks. Anything wrong in
the world, according to him, was the fault of the Greeks. He was a
bigot, of course, but as far as I knew he never caused anyone harm, not
even Greeks. He was just a weirdly eccentric person, who had unusual
opinions about the world. In the grand scheme of things, there are many
worse vices a man can have, than a bias against another group of people.

Here is my favorite way of explaining this to people puzzled by my
indifference to the great crimes of antisemitism and racism. Imagine
moving into a new house. You find out the guy across the street is an
anti-Semite. Now, imagine you learn that the guy to the left is a
methamphetamine dealer. Which neighbor troubles you more? Only a nut
would say the anti-Semite is the bigger worry. The point is there is a
long list of things that are worse than holding negative opinions.

Now, as far as my opinion on antisemitism, I must admit I have a
negative view of it, just as I have a negative view of racism. The
mistake people make is in thinking that race realism is the same as
racism. If I were a racist, I would not live in Lagos. I can be quite
realistic about the nature of blacks, without holding black people in
contempt. In fact, I have a great deal of sympathy for black people. The
reason for that is I am well aware of the biological reality that
underlies the plight of blacks in America.

Similarly, I am a realist, with regards to Jews in America. I have
written quite bit on Jewish exceptionalism. I did a long podcast episode
examining the alt-right’s arguments on the JQ. I have written critiques
of Jewish social customs. I have had debates with Jews about Jewish
issues. I stood in a room full of Jews once, explaining and defending
the humor of Andrew Anglin. The point is that you can discuss, even as a
non-Jew, all the issues involved in the JQ, without being an
anti-Semite.

Now, many anti-Semites have encouraged me to “take the red pill” on the
JQ so then I would come to appreciate what antisemitism brings to the
party. The claim is that once you accept their claims, antisemitism fits
like a glove. I generally assume to this to mean the theories of Kevin
McDonald, the retired professor of psychology, who wrote the book
*Culture of Critique*. John Derbyshire called him the Karl Marx of
antisemitism, which is turning out to be prophetic.

Well, I have read Kevin McDonald. I think he makes an excellent case
against Boasian anthropology, Freudian psychoanalysis, and Frankfurt
School critical theory. In fact, his arguments against these
intellectual movements should be required reading for anyone trying to
understand the current crisis. Further, there is no disputing his
observation that these movements were dominated by Jews. In fact, all of
the monstrous ideologies of the last era had an over representation of
Jews.

The truth is though, Jews are overrepresented in everything that
requires a high level of math and verbal skill. Every intellectual
movement, which was not explicitly anti-Semitic, saw an over
representation of Jews. Movements attract smart people. They also tend
to be located in urban areas, where Jews have always lived. Therefore,
no one should be surprised that Jews are overrepresented in political
and cultural movements, especially those of the radical variety.

The main argument of McDonald is that Judaism is a “group evolutionary
strategy” engineered to promote Jewish interests at the expense of the
host society. He argues that Judaism promoted eugenic practices favoring
high intelligence, conscientiousness, and ethnocentrism, so Jews reached
the late Middle Ages with these qualities in extraordinary surplus. Once
Jews were allowed to participate in Western society, they were uniquely
equipped to dominate intellectual movements.

This is possible. It also strikes me as a bit like intelligent design.
This unique tool kit for undermining Western society evolved for the
purpose of undermining a Western society, that only came into existence
recently. In fact, this group evolutionary strategy came pretty close to
getting all European Jews killed half a century ago. Jewish dominance
today is entirely due to America opening up the country to Eastern
European Jews at the start of the last century. Apparently, Jews
*really* plan ahead.

The bottom line, with regards to Kevin McDonald and the general idea of
Jews being a hostile and subversive people, is that it *could* be true.
It could also be true that Jews have followed the pattern of all
minority populations and gravitated to the people in charge, seeing them
as protectors. In America, which means Yankee progressives, who have, in
one form or another, dominated the country since Gettysburg. Jew just
joined the bets club in the country.

As you can see, I am well acquainted with the arguments and I am not
instinctively hostile to most of them. Like everyone with some knowledge
of human evolution, I am a bit skeptical of group evolutionary strategy.
It could be a real thing. It could also be total nonsense like
phrenology. Within my lifetime smart people were sure you could be
talked out of insanity. There have been a lot of nutty fads in human
sciences, so skepticism is a prudent position until more data comes in.

Obviously, my resistance to antisemitism is not based in ignorance of
the material or fear of the morality police. The main issue for me is
that anti-Semites think “the Jews” is the answer o all problems. They
are like a man who has only mastered how to use a hammer. He sees every
problem as a nail. In the case of anti-Semites, everything is blamed on
the Jews to the point of absurdity. It seems to me that in order to be
an anti-Semite, one has to commit their life to it, like joining a gang.

While I bear no ill will to those of you who have become anti-Semites, I
just do not think it is the place for me. My group evolutionary
strategy, as it were, is to enjoy the fullness of life, even the parts
that are not so good. Obsessing over Jews all the time seems like a
waste of time. If there comes a time when I have to obsess over Jews all
the time, then I will do what I must, but for now, I have lots of other
interests. No hard feelings and the bets of luck in your project.

Warmest Regards

Z
