---
title: "There Will Be Blood"
date: "2018-07-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14262"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14262"
---

In a healthy and orderly society, the ruling class maintains a set of
rules for arbitrating disputes, allocating power and disciplining
transgressors. The rules governing the ruling class are intended to
defend the ruling class from internal threats, as well as external ones.
The rules make sure that people entering the ruling elite are the sort
who will improve and defend the system. It also protects those new
members, by giving them an orderly path up through the hierarchy.

Imagine if it was acceptable in the Senate for a back bencher to murder
his rivals in order to gain a senior position in the Senate. That could
be tempting to an upstart, but then again, killing off newcomers would
also make sense. Having rules against murdering rivals protects
everyone. An orderly system of distributing power and promoting new
people up the hierarchy encourages everyone in the ruling class to
defend the ruling class system.

It’s why so-called conservatives rush to the nearest microphone to
disavow challenges from their right. They always frame it is a choice
between reasonable compromise versus unreasonable extremism. Their calls
for civility are essentially a defense of the current order. The rules
work for them, as it allows them to enjoy a one percent lifestyle as the
opposition to the Left. While not as gratuitous, progressives will also
call for civility when they sense a threat from their Left.

That’s what makes the debate on the Left about tactics interesting to
those on this side of the great divide, even though we have no role in
the debate. There is no one speaking for our issues in the halls of
power and our people are excluded from the political debate. On the
other hand, the most radical progressive crazies get at least an
audience with the people in charge. <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2018/06/incivility/563963/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This Atlantic piece</a> gives a little
hint that maybe the moderate middle is about to collapse.

*American politics is today a brutal boxing match of harassing
confrontations. The disagreements renew two enduring questions: one
philosophical, one historical. Is political harassment civil? And do the
ugly political confrontations signal a sharp departure, or have they
always existed in the United States of America?*

*Moderates in both major political parties have long argued no on both
fronts. Their political brand is unity. They pursue the absence of
tension. That has meant avoiding confrontations through building
political bridges high above the audible river of children crying in
detention facilities, in police cars and cells, in abandoned schools, in
abuse-infested homes, in rat-infested apartments, in searches for
incarcerated and deported parents, in funeral homes over closed caskets,
in plantation shacks after their first whipping, and in slave auctions
fearing their new harassers.*

*These political moderates classify as uncivil those, like Donald Trump,
who would toss children into those crying spaces. They classify as
uncivil those, like Maxine Waters, who run down into those crying spaces
and call for the all-out harassment of the harassers. They look down on
both the Trumps and the Waters’ from the heights of their self-styled
civility. They look down on those crying children—and their comatose or
raging defenders—and counsel patience, preaching a religious belief in
the American political process.*

Now, you have to put aside the fact that the author of that piece is a
ridiculous person with a fake name. His lack of authenticity is part of
the act that gets him a place in the prevailing orthodoxy. The angry
black man routine allows him to play the part of house anti-white among
the ruling class Progressives. If he had stuck with his [birth
name](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ibram_X._Kendi), he would be forced
to play a different role, as no one is going to take seriously a guy
playing the Malcolm X part with the name “Mister Rogers” and sporting a
cardigan.

What matters is his argument that justice requires the just to be
uncivil, by which he means overthrowing the rules. After all, incivility
is by definition the rejection of the rules of discourse. Radicals have
always been attracted to this formulation, as they always imagine
themselves as the righteous underdog fighting the powerful system. In
the last century, this was at least plausible, if not entirely accurate.
Communist revolutionaries wanted a new system. The New Left was in
revolt against the previous generation.

Today, the Progressives are in total control of American life. If you
doubt this, name a left-wing web site that has been banned from the
internet. The terrorist group Antifa is allowed to operate on Twitter
and Facebook. Post FBI crime stats on social media and you risk being
doxed by a Huffington Post writer and losing your job. In other words,
the people in total control of the system are now losing faith in the
system, because they do not think it is effective enough at crushing
their enemies. Ibram X. Kendi wants more blood.

This is not surprising. From Robespierre through Marxism, into the
multiculturalism of today, the Left has always been a spiritual cause,
because all of their schemes require a certain type of person, a certain
moral understanding. Ultimately what is required for their society to
work is a certain moral order that can only be imposed. As Progressivism
has curdled into an anti-white ascendancy, it means erasing all traces
of whiteness, which is going to mean erasing white people. You cannot do
that and remain civil.

What we are seeing is that the anti-white ascendancy that was birthed by
cultural Marxism, brings with it the same defects as Marxism. That is,
it lacks a limiting principle, so it inevitably proceeds to the most
extreme expression of its core beliefs. There was no end to radical
intolerance in 20th century Marxism. There will be no end to the racial
bloodlust by anti-white radicals. It is why anti-whites are offended by
calls to civility. The inevitable end point of their ideology is
unrestrained vengeance against whites.

A dozen years ago, Mark Steyn made the point that the history of ruling
elites reforming themselves is not very encouraging. That was in the
context of immigration. All these years on, we see that our ruling
classes have done nothing to stem the flood of migrants into the West.
Therefore, it is hard to imagine them standing up to the anti-white
radicals they have cultivated the last few decades. Guys like Ibram X.
Kendi exist to hate whitey and they will not be restrained by calls for
civility or compromise.
