---
title: "A Tribal Dilemma"
date: "2018-09-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15109"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15109"
---

For as long as anyone reading this has been alive, Jews in America have
been firmly on the Left of American politics. Milton Himmelfarb famously
quipped that “Jews earn like Episcopalians, and vote like Puerto
Ricans.” It is not just voting patterns. Jews have been the intellectual
engine of the Left since the Second World War. Members of the Frankfurt
School took up positions in the American academy, transforming the soft
sciences into a cultural force. Jews were front and center in the
radical movements of the 60’s and 70’s.

Jews are not a monolith, despite what some may claim. There are divides
within American Jewry and some degree of geographic diversity. German
Jews that came to America in the middle of the 19th century have
different cultural patterns than the Pale of Settlement Jews who arrived
in the early 20th century. There are sectarian divides, as well, with
Reformed and secular Jews having different cultural patterns than
conservative Jews and the Orthodox. Still, the bulk of Jews fit neatly
into the stereotype of cosmopolitan Jew.

For liberal Jews, the world is becoming increasingly complicated as the
American Left becomes not just the coalition of non-whites, but the
coalition of anti-whites. For a long time, liberal Jews were able to be
allies to non-whites, arguing for greater access and participation,
while also being viewed as white by heritage Americans. As the American
Left becomes anti-white, this is no longer possible. In the world of
identity politics, it is impossible to hold two passports. Everyone gets
one team and only one team.

Another complication is that Team Brown is not all that fond of Jews.
Blacks have always had a bitter relationship with Jews, despite Jewish
support for black causes. [Hispanics are casually
antisemitic](http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2006/05/hispanic-deluge-bad-news-for-jews.html)
at levels most do not understand. The Left has also always had a complex
relationship with Israel. The [BDS Movement](https://bdsmovement.net/)
that flourishes in Progressive bastions further complicates things. Most
important though is the fact that the brown hordes see Jews as white and
therefore the enemy, regardless of their politics.

This does not mean that Jews are about to be evicted from the
Progressive coalition, but the winds are certainly blowing that way. As
much as resistance to globalism is viewed as a force on the Right, the
Left’s hostility to order, any order, a legacy of the Frankfurt School,
means trouble for anyone trying to harness the forces of the Left. Look
around the rest of the English-speaking world and you see a similar
phenomenon. The Left’s anti-Zionism is slowly curdling into a quiet
hostility to Jews in the generality.

The neocons are the obvious exception to the stereotype of liberal Jews.
In the 60’s and 70’s some disaffected Jewish intellectuals made the
journey to the Right, mostly over the issue of the Soviet Union and
Israel. Their embrace of cultural conservatism was a matter of
necessity, to fit into the Republican coalition. Critics have described
them as Trotskyites, because of their advocacy for revolutionary
democracy around the world and their lust to use military power to “move
history in the right direction.”

The situation for neoconservatives is vastly worse than for liberal
Jews. The neocons went all in on opposition to Trump’s primary run,
launching the NeverTrump movement and then worked to undermine Trump in
the general. It was a disastrous miscalculation as it probably helped
Trump tap into the deep well of resentment among whites toward the
neocon elite that captured the party in the Bush years. Rather than
remaining in the coalition debating policy, they have placed themselves
at odds with the Trump coalition.

Even though people like Jonah Goldberg could probably waddle back over
to the Left, most neocons do not have that option. Opposition to an
aggressive foreign policy has been a plank of the American Left for
generations. The hyper-violent neoconservatives and their desire to
invade the world is never going to work. Then there is the general
opposition to Israel and support for the Palestinians. Add in the
explicit identity politics of the modern Left and there is simply no way
to square neoconservative ideas with the modern Left.

Taken together, what is shaping up for Jews in America is a political
arrangement where they have no natural home. Liberal Jews are
increasingly at risk in the Left coalition due to looking a bit too pale
for Team Brown. The new opposition that is forming up in opposition to
Team Brown is explicitly white, as well as nationalist and populist.
While it is not explicitly antisemitic, despite what some claim, it will
certainly be hostile to the sort of cosmopolitanism Jews have
historically preferred. Jews could be left without a home.

Ironically, Jewish exceptionalism is turning out to be their undoing, as
they have managed to transform the American Left and the American Right.
Domestically, the Left is every bit as radical and disruptive as
anything the Bolsheviks imagined. On foreign policy, the Right is as
revolutionary as the communist radicals of yesteryear. The result is a
political class at war with itself and at war with the majority
population. It is beginning to look as if the [Jewish
century](https://www.amazon.com/Jewish-Century-Yuri-Slezkine/dp/0691127603)
is curdling into a Jewish disaster for Jews in America.

That said, Jews are the most adaptive people in human history. There is
no reason why Jews in America could not simply throw in with the white
majority. Just as the neocons broke with the Left-over opposition to the
Soviets, perhaps liberal Jews will break with the Left over the issue of
identity politics. After all, in a balkanized country, the only way for
a tiny minority to survive is to attach to the most powerful tribe.
Given the options on Team Brown, Team White is going to look like a
better option, assuming the option is open.
