---
title: "Social Capital"
date: "2018-11-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15574"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15574"
---

My dentist is located on a side street in a professional building. It is
one of those generic commercial buildings you see in business parks all
over America. It is not a big building, just two floors and half a dozen
suites or so. It is an odd stretch of road as there is a public library
and a school on the street, along with my dentist, but the rest is a
residential neighborhood of nice single-family homes, most of which were
built in the middle of the last century. It is a nice little
neighborhood where everyone knows one another.

On one side of the dentist was an old house that had fallen into
disrepair, but after a series of mysterious happenings, the building was
condemned and knocked down. The last time I was at the dentist, the old
house was just a pile of debris, and a front-end loader was putting it
into a dumpster. My assumption was that whoever took possession of the
property had decided to start over and build a new house. After all,
even though the lot was near the professional building, it was a nice
little neighborhood on a quiet street.

This trip to the dentist saw a beehive of activity on the lot. The lot
is on a steep hill, so the houses along the street are on terraced
plots, with one side of the yard being a steep incline to the terrace up
the hill from them. Every driveway has a four-wheel drive vehicle, as it
would be impossible to get up the street in the snow otherwise. By the
looks of the foundation and some of the excavating, it looked like the
plan was to build another office building on the lot. It had that cheap,
slapped together look you see in office parks.

I asked the hygienist about the construction, and she told me that the
plan was to build three townhouses on the lot. Keep in mind that there
are no townhouses in this area and the lot is the size of a postage
stamp. Once the thing is done, each townhouse will have a strip of grass
about twelve feet wide and ten feet long to call a lawn. It is going to
be a monstrosity that is completely out of place in the neighborhood.
According to my dentist, no one had a clue as to what was happening
until construction had started.

This is an example of the modern economy. The builders are not adding
value to the land or to the neighborhood. You can say the value of the
land they bought has been increased by their activity and that would be
a true statement, but their activity is the process of stealing the
social capital of the neighbors, to increase their property value. All
the houses within eyesight of this mess will now lose value, as people
looking to move into a nice neighborhood like this one, do not want to
be near townhouses or renters.

That is apparently the other thing. According to my dentist, the word is
the houses may not be on sale, but instead they may be rentals. The
scheme is to tap into a low-cost housing program to put blacks from the
city into these townhouses via the miracle of Section 8 housing
vouchers. Not only will the neighbors have their home values decline
because of the aesthetics, they will now have to contend with three
houses full of rampaging blacks from the city. I noticed several “for
sale” signs on the street already.

Of course, it will not just be the immediate neighbors who pay for this.
The school will get much worse if it is Section 8 renters going into the
houses. The local stores will go into decline, as crime will become an
issue. This killed off a mall on the west side of town. It started as a
very nice, upscale place that mostly served the Jews, who live west of
Baltimore city. Then it was overrun by blacks and all the businesses
closed. The last time I was there with a friend, the place looked like
the end times. Total bedlam.

Again, this is the nature of the American economy. Sure, there are still
people coming up with ideas to solve old problems, but most of what is
called economic activity is just organized theft. Some clever guy
figures out how to monetize the social capital of a part of society and
then proceeds to sell it off. Amazon is an obvious example of this.
There will be no little league teams sponsored by Amazon. There were
always little league teams sponsored by the local store owners. That has
all gone because Amazon cannibalized it.

The internet economy is pretty much just the monetization of existing
ideas, along with the artificial creation of bottlenecks. Apple and
Google control the mobile space, so they now operate as toll takers.
Neither company does anything interesting, in terms of technology or
innovation. They just rob helpless travelers on the internet. PayPal is
another example of a firm that adds zero value but gets to operate as a
gate keeper. None of this would be possible without the massive taxpayer
subsidies to build and maintain the internet.

Cost-shifting is obviously true in real estate. I have joked for years
that the builder’s name developments after whatever it is they bulldozed
to build the houses. It is a strange, unintentional mockery of culture.
They knock down the authentic, to build a synthetic town, so a bunch of
strangers can move through it. The argument is that there is a demand
for new houses, so the old must give way to the new. No one ever bothers
to ask why there is a demand for new houses or wonder from where these
people are fleeing.

That is just the thing. America is just a continental sized pump and
dump right now. Millions of illiterate peasants are moving in, turning
modest neighborhoods into squalor, so those people flee to somewhere
else. Of course, the affordable housing for them is plopped next to nice
organic neighborhoods, so those people flee to an upscale planned
community a little further out from the city. On and on it goes, all
financed by credit and perpetrated by people who hate us. The result is
a land of strangers with no social capital.
