---
title: "Puritans And Progressives"
date: "2018-03-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13298"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13298"
---

A list of major mass movements in American history would include women’s
suffrage, the Social Gospel movement, abolitionism, the temperance
movement, the efficiency movement, the New Deal, the Civil Rights
Movement, the New Left and maybe Neoliberalism. There are others, but
that is a good list of the big ones. What is remarkable, even looking at
only the major ones, is the number. America is the land of reformers and
proselytizers.

The movements in the 20th century, starting with the efficiency
movement, are usually called progressivism. They get their own stall in
the American mass movement bizarre, but progressive is a good umbrella
term for them. In fact, you can lump earlier movements in with the
latter movements. All of them trace some of their roots to the Puritan
founding of New England. Unlike European mass movements, American
movements are about communal salvation.

American mass movements always start from some version of “a society is
judged on the basis of how it treats its weakest members.” This is part
of its inheritance from the Puritans. While the Puritans that settled in
America believed in predestination, clues about one’s fate could be
found in good works, church attendance and prayer. Part of that was
making sure others did the same things, as they sought to discover their
destiny. It is why church attendance was mandatory for Puritans.

Individual grace meant an individualized reading of and interpretation
of Scripture, which led to tensions, even open hostility, within the
church. The solution was a strict hierarchy and consensus. If one could
only find clues to their own salvation in a thriving community of
believers, maintaining the community becomes paramount. That resulted in
a forced consensus within each community. Dissidents were persecuted and
even banished. A Puritan community functioned like a single organism.

It is a good example of how the practical application of belief can
result in practices that appear at odds with the belief. The Puritans
rejected the concept of free will, but they still judged one another’s
action, because leading a righteous life *might* be an indication of
God’s grace. The righteous would never tolerate an obvious sinner in the
community of believers, so policing the ranks for sinners was a
*potential* sign of God’s grace. Everyone, even Puritans, wants to hedge
their bets when it comes to grace.

Of course, anyone paying attention to the modern Left understands that
forced consensus is at the heart of their beliefs. The constant cries
for “unity” and the railing against those who “divide” or “polarize” is
an effort to enforce consensus. It is also why conservatives are so fond
of purging people from their ranks. It is a purity test, but also a way
of removing trouble makers from the community of the righteous. Instead
of Quakers, it is racists getting run out of the community.

Another thing that you see in all Progressive movements, rooted in
Puritan New England, is the hunt for Old Scratch. The Puritans believed
that Satan was a real thing and played a role in human affairs. They saw
Satan as a creation of God, that punished the wicked, but also gave
purpose to the pious. After all, if your deeds had no impact on the
disposition of your soul and there was no price to be paid for sin, what
would be the point of virtue? Satan solved half that problem for
Puritans.

The *post hoc fallacy* is not new to this age. If you believe that bad
things happen because of a lack of piety, then the only reason for the
bad things happening to the community is someone cavorting with Old
Scratch. The Puritans were uniquely susceptible to the witch panics,
because they saw a direct causal link between sinners in the community
and bad things befalling the community. The Puritans were necessarily,
but unusually paranoid.

Even though modern Progressives no longer explicitly talk about God or
Satan, they still carry with them a fear of supernatural influences. The
endless search for racists, for example, is just the same old hunt for
Satan. If the community is not unified, it must be due to those
polarizing types, who are responsible for white privilege, the glass
ceiling or the rape culture. Now, [suburban white
mothers](https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/her-son-facing-murder-charges-is-being-called-an-alt-right-killer-this-mother-blames-herself/2018/03/26/6e4326c4-02a9-11e8-bb03-722769454f82_story.html?utm_term=.015144ec9f07)
are fretting that their sons may be cavorting with bad people on-line.

Communal salvation, forced consensus and the fear of Old Scratch
inevitably means a sense of alienation to the outside world. Read any
description of Puritan life and you see a hostility to outsiders. This
is another thing you see with all progressives mass movements and you
certainly see it today. The modern Left is consumed with defining who is
inside and who is outside their thing. The people inside are the
righteous, while the people outside are all evil.

Like the Puritan communities, progressives are inward looking. Those
outside the movement are assumed to be hostile. It is why they have so
many words that simply mean “people outside the walls.” The phrase
“right-winger” is used interchangeably with the word “Republican” even
though they are almost opposites. To the progressives, they both mean
outsider. Puritans did not waste a lot of time understanding the
difference between Quakers and Episcopalians.

This binary world view has another effect. For progressives, there are
only two possible answers to any question and they are mutually
exclusive. There is the righteous answer and the false or evil answer.
It is why they spend all of their time “debunking” human science. If
they can defeat the evil answer, it means the righteous answer triumphs
and, by extension, they are the righteous. It’s also why the concept of
casual indifference is alien to Progressives. There can be no
compromise.

This is a good place to note that a generation ago, progressives smugly
put Darwin fish on their Subaru. Today, they shake their fist at the
“scientific racists” using new findings in genetics to reveal the
origins of modern people. Because unity is the promised land, anything
that divides people is the work of Satan. It is why racism is the great
bogeyman of the Left. The growing mountain of scientific data revealing
the diversity of modern humans, is seen as a gathering storm,
threatening the righteous.

There are other Puritan aspects to modern progressives, things like
conformity and an affinity for black clothing, but the important
influence is the spiritual one. The Puritans were utopians, when you
strip away all of the mythology and lore. They came to the New World to
build their ideal community. When Reagan spoke of the “city on the hill”
he was speaking to a spiritual sensibility that started at Plymouth. It
is a spiritual sensibility that is with us to this day.
