---
title: "The Death Of Edgytarian Man"
date: "2018-11-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15634"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15634"
---

The other day, [Paul
Ramsey](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KaswOHcaMxM) had an amusing take
on [Gavin McInnes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DGrPjx2V_TA)
dramatically quitting his fan club, the Proud Boys. Everyone is assuming
this was in response to [the FBI using the word “extremist” when
describing the McInnes fan
club](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/417468-fbi-now-classifies-far-right-proud-boys-as-extremist-group-documents)
in a bulletin they issued to the Portland Oregon police department. The
assumption is that the FBI is now going to treat Proud Boys as a
criminal organization or a terrorist group. McInnes is disavowing them
to avoid legal guilt by association or any financial culpability
stemming from lawsuits.

Maybe that’s what motivated McInnes, but the more likely answer is
something [I pointed out a year
ago](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=11668) with him and other
edgytarians. For right-wing edgytarians, the game is always to keep an
eye on where the Left is drawing the line. To be edgy on the Right means
always staying just inside that line. When the line moves, make sure you
move with it, maybe do so reluctantly, while lecturing those to your
Right about the need to play nice or be civil. A good discourse on
principles and “who we are” always helps.

It is a tough life and many trip and fall into the void. That is what is
happening with McInnes and his fan club. Let us not kid ourselves about
the Proud Boys. It was never intended to be anything but a fan club for
McInnes. He got the idea from hanging out with alt-right people in the
run-up to the presidential election. He saw that guys like Mike Enoch
and Richard Spencer had built an audience around a personal brand, so
McInnes created what he thought was a mom-safe version for himself.
Proud Boys is alt-right-lite.

Now, the assumption that the FBI is about to RICO the Proud Boys is way
off base. The use of the term “extremist group” is meaningless. There is
no formal designation in the law or with the FBI. It is as meaningful as
saying the Proud Boys are a drinking club or they like wearing polo
shirts. The FBI is a corrupt and broken organization, but they are not
about to RICO a TV clown’s fan club. The dramatic reading of his
resignation was about getting inside that line again, so McInnes can
keep his career alive.

It is why it is always wise to think about the motivation of popular
figures who dabble in dissident politics. A guy like McInnes is
primarily a performer. He has spent his life feeling around for a
vehicle that will get him a big audience. He is tried edgy magazine
writer, edgy polemicist, TV clown, YouTube clown, jokey political
analyst, cheeky adman and now he is the hipster gadfly. His instincts,
with regards to politics, are conventional white guy politics, but they
have always been a decoration for his performing career.

Another example is Stefan Molyneux, who built his career being a
dramatic, somewhat edgy, anarcho-libertarian YouTube performer. His
edginess was to flirt with things like biological realism, by posting
available data on things like race, sex, and IQ. Molyneux is a trained
stage actor, who has developed an act that works well on YouTube. As
soon as he got some heat from the Left, [he has quickly retreated into
generic libertarianism](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qI_zE7lnukc),
which is completely safe, because it is completely harmless. The show
must go on.

On the surface, the right-edgytarian feels like a good thing, because
through humor (McInnes) and dramatic presentation (Molyneux) they can
help normalize and popularize heretical ideas. Lots of alt-right people
love Moly, because his videos are useful in making clever social media
memes. The trouble is these guys can just as quickly vilify dissident
ideas, when they are sprinting to catch up with the new line Lefty has
drawn. Effectively what McInnes is doing is throwing his own fans into
the gaping maw of Lefty outrage.

The trouble, of course, is that in an age of extreme intolerance, as we
see today, the ideological enforcers are less tolerant of edgy clowns
like McInnes than serious dissidents. They see the edgy clowns as
mocking their identity and that can never be tolerated, so they go after
these otherwise harmless performers. It is why a relatively safe
performer like Molyneux gets mass reported and protested. The
ideological enforcers know they are defending a dead and brittle
orthodoxy, so there is no room for tolerance.

It is why edgy guy is doomed, at least for now. As I pointed out a year
ago, in an ideological age, you pick one side and only one side. There
is no bridging the gap or performing on both sides of the street. The
edgytarians, if they are to exist at all, will have to operate on this
side of the great divide. That requires a new type of performer with a
grounding in dissident ideas. None of the edgy guys today have that, so
they will eventually end up on the other side, singing to an audience of
true believers.
