---
title: "The Survivor"
date: "2018-10-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15239"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15239"
---

Something that has gone unremarked in the latest outburst of female
hysteria is why these purple-faced rage-heads we see on television and
on social media, call themselves survivors. The word turns up in all
their self-descriptions. It is clear the word has taken on a spiritual
meaning. The survivor, they insist, is incapable of error or dishonesty.
We must not only believe survivors, but obey them. To do otherwise
violates some unexplained, sacred code.

What it is they have survived? The claim is they are survivors of sexual
assault, which is a strange thing to say since no one dies from sexual
assault. The law defines assault as “an intentional act by one person
that creates an apprehension in another of an imminent harmful or
offensive contact.” Therefore, sexual assault is the credible threat of
unwanted sexual contact by someone with the present ability to do it,
but not the act itself. That is a different crime.

No one dies from a threat, so the idea of being a survivor of a threat,
at least in the narrow sense of the law, is ridiculous. Most likely,
these women are using “assault” colloquially, as in a physical attack.
Even so, this has two problems. One is no one dies from sexual assault
as currently defined. Even rape is non-lethal. The victim could die from
the physical encounter that preceded or followed the rape, but we have
moved into a realm of crime no one includes in the definition of sexual
assault.

If we are to take them seriously, we must stick with present reality
when defining sexual assault. In the current age, sexual assault means
anything from a dirty joke to a woman being pressured into sex.
Somewhere in that range is the woman who got knee-walking drunk and woke
up with her panties on her head. Even allowing for the alleged trauma
that ensues, these are not things one survives. It is like saying you
survived a parking ticket or a rainy week of vacation.

The other problem is the concept of survival is not passive. It is
active, which is why people get applause for things like fighting off a
shark attack at the beach. It was not dumb luck, at least not
exclusively, that saved the person. They fought for their life to
overcome the threat. Exactly no one has died from being hit on by the
boss, so you do not get special credit for having endured it until you
found a new job, or the guy got canned for being a creepy perv in the
workplace.

That may sound monstrously indifferent, but that is the point. An
objective view of what we are seeing, therefore, must include the very
real and very intense emotion we see from these women. The purple-faced
shrieking does not validate their claims, but it does suggest they
really believe this stuff. They truly believe they have gone through
some transcendent ordeal, a purifying trial that has altered them in
ways that only those who have experienced it can understand and
appreciate.

That is the clue as to what may be going on here. Purification rituals
are common to religions in all times and places. For example, baptism,
according to the Catholic Church, is the ritual through which we are
freed from sin and reborn as sons of God and members of the Church.
Conversion to Judaism requires full immersion in a Mikveh, a ritual
purification bath connected to a natural spring. In the Greco-Roman
world, the mystery religions were those that required initiation of some
kind.

We have in modern times the phrase “trial by fire” which we understand
to mean a potentially lethal ordeal that also purifies the survivor.
They come out the other end of the experience, changed by the ordeal.
Soldiers, for example, who experience heavy combat are assumed to have
been changed by the experience. The assumption is the act of survival
requires skills and deeds that are otherwise never required. The
survivor therefore gains special knowledge as a result.

Within the progressive coalition, various tribes have creation myths
that hinge on the concept of the survivor. American Jews have turned the
holocaust into something that dwarfs the flight from Egypt. Survival is
integral to Jewishness. God’s chosen people survive because they are
God’s chosen people. Surviving the Nazis not only bestows special status
on the victims, but it feeds into the sense of Jewish identity as a
people under assault.

Blacks have a similar origin myth. Like the Jews, they were in bondage,
but unlike the Jews they never fled oppression. Instead, they were
transferred to a different form of oppression in the form of
segregation. Their survival as a race and their ongoing fight for
freedom is what defines blackness in America. The “black body” stuff
that turns up in Afrocentric literature is a mystical implementation of
the assertion that blacks are under constant physical threat and it
defines them.

White women find themselves at a loss to match blacks and Jews in terms
of victim status, so they invented intersectionality. Since the only
thing white women must complain about is white men lusting after them,
they must find something else. For a long time, feminists have been
trying to compare their “struggle” with that of blacks and Jews, but it
is a tough sell. Comparing Becky’s struggle to get that promotion, with
slavery or the holocaust, does not go over well.

That seems to be where the “I’m a survivor” stuff comes into the mix.
Claiming special victim status because your great grandfather had to
ride in the back of the bus does not hold up to someone claiming they
were assaulted last week. For Jewish women this is like hitting the
lottery. They get to remind everyone that they lost family they never
knew, and they can say Haven Monahan grabbed their boob at a college
party. So far, black women have not jumped on this, but maybe that is a
bridge too far.

In other words, the anger being directed at normal people by these
enraged women probably has nothing to do with the rest of us. It is a
battle within the progressive cult over status within the cult. Brett
Kavanaugh was just a convenient prop to be used in what amounts to a
morality play. This drama allows people in the audience to display their
piety, by how they react to the show. It is why white and Jewish male
progressives have been falling all over themselves in support of this.
