---
title: "The Public Square"
date: "2018-03-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13096"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13096"
---

If you wanted to start a delivery service, you would need vehicles of
some sort to make your deliveries. You would need to hire drivers and
people to help figure out the logistics of delivering whatever it is you
intend to deliver. The other thing you would need is permits to operate
your delivery vehicles on the road. The reason for that is the roads
belong to the public. The job of the state is to maintain the roads and
part of that is regulating how the roads are used. That means you have
to obey the rules in order to use the roads.

This may seem obvious, but it is not something that was always obvious.
For most of human history, the concept of a “public good” did not exist.
In a feudal economy, everything belongs to the king or lord. The common
grazing lands would be used by everyone, but they belonged to the king
and so did the animals. The military, which defended the king’s lands,
was the king’s army, because it was explicitly for the use of the king
to defend his possessions. In feudalism, there were no public goods.

Under communism, in theory at least, everything is a public good. The
people own the land and the capital that is accumulated through labor.
In reality this is a fiction, of course, as it is the state that owns
everything. The party controls the state and those who control the party
essentially own everything. This is not a lot different from feudalism,
except that the guy in charge is not the leader of “his people” in the
ethnic sense. Otherwise, all goods, excludable and nonexcludable are
held by whoever runs the party.

It is only in participatory government where we have to think about
public goods. Things like parks, highways, seaports, rivers, the
military and even the air are considered public goods. How these are
used and regulated is determined by the people’s representatives in
government. All of us get the benefit of these things so all of us have
a say in how they are regulated. It is why a city has to issue permits
for parades and protests, when the participants are unpopular. Even the
ugly and annoying get to use public goods.

The concept of public goods, like the concept of participatory
government, did not spring from nothing. It evolved over time as people
worked through how to conserve and manage things like natural resources.
The American national park system was created because it solved the
problem of managing the great natural wonders of the country. The
government manages fisheries, because we slowly figured out, due to
overfishing, that even the coastal waterways are public goods and must
managed as such.

This notion of public goods is what drives the idea of universal
suffrage. The government itself is seen as a public good. The military
does not just protect property holders or natives. The police do not
just patrol the streets of land owning white males. If all of us are
going to get use of the government, good and ill, then all of us should
have some say in how the government runs, within reasonable limits. We
bar criminals from voting, for the same reason we ban the insane from
voting. These are exceptions that prove the rule.

This link between democracy and public goods is important to keep in
mind when thinking about the on-going efforts by Progressives to
shut-off dissent from the Internet. Like trucking companies, outfits
like YouTube could not exist without the information superhighway, owned
by all of us. It is why these big content providers fight to prevent the
ISP’s from throttling their content. If Comcast can block Netflix from
its networks, Comcast can suddenly operate like a protection racket,
stripping these services of their profits.

Now, it is reasonable to demand companies like YouTube pay some special
tax for their use of the Internet. They use this resource way out of
proportion than anyone else, so a special use tax is a way to address
it. Trucking companies pay special use taxes, because heavy trucks are
more damaging to the road than your car. Similarly, parade organizers
are often charged for police details and other security measures,
because these are above and beyond normal use of the streets.

Like the parade route or the public park, there is an overriding issue
and that is these public goods are intertwined with our democratic form
of government. Controlling access to the park for a rally, is no
different than controlling access to the public square for a political
speech or access to the ballot for a political party. Even if a public
park is managed by a private operator, a common thing these days, the
rules governing this public good still apply. Regardless of who cuts the
grass, the park is ours.

That is what needs to apply to these large social media companies. Like
it or not, the internet is now the public square. These services like
Twitter and YouTube only exist because the public square exists and the
concept of the public good exists. If Twitter goes away tomorrow, the
internet still exists. If the internet goes away tomorrow, all of the
social media platforms go with it. In this regard, they are no different
from a vendor operating in a public park. They must abide by the same
rules as the public.

As far as the argument that these are private companies goes, well, that
is true, but again, they cannot exist without this commonly held thing
called the internet. If Facebook had to build out its own infrastructure
to deliver cat videos and virility ads to your grandmother, it would
have to charge granny millions for the service. In other words, these
services benefit from this public utility we call the internet, the
trade-off for them, like a public broadcaster, is they have to adhere to
the rules the public sets for regulating that utility.

The rules we apply to holding rallies in public parks, holding parades
on public streets and issuing permits for conducting commerce on public
thoroughfares need to be applied to businesses that operate on-line. If
Twitter wants to charge users like a private club, then they can impose
ideological rules. If they want to operate as a public square, then they
must operate like one. This is the California model that is now [going
to be used in a lawsuit against
Twitter](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2018/02/23/free-speech-suit-aims-prevent-twitter-blocking-users-based-political-views/).
It needs to be the model nationally so we can have a public square back.
