---
title: "Thoughts On Elites"
date: "2018-05-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13702"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13702"
---

A famous line from the movie *The Usual Suspects* is “The greatest trick
the Devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn’t exist.” Even
after all these years, it turns up in comment sections and social
media. It is a good line to bear in mind when thinking about who is
actually ruling over us. In America, our elites have spent a long time
convincing us that there are no elites. The fact is though, every
society has an elite and it is usually a stable, semi-permanent one. The
people in charge tend to stay in charge.

Here is an interesting bit of data that underscores the stability of a
nation’s elites. In the 16th century, the Spanish conquered the area
that is now Guatemala. The Spanish were not settlers like the English,
so a local Spanish elite came into rule over the conquered people, who
were often used as slaves in mining and agriculture. Since 1531, [22
families have controlled Guatemala’s economy, politics and
culture](http://eclectic.ss.uci.edu/~drwhite/pub/core11Casasola.pdf).
Another twenty-six families have served as a secondary elite, often
marrying into the core elite.

The result is one percent of the population, descendants of the
Conquistadors, has controlled the country for over four hundred years.
This dominance has been locked in by a set of marriage rules, which
created a self-perpetuating marriage strategy. For example, both the
bride and groom had to bring a certain amount of wealth into the
marriage. The result was both families would negotiate marriages much in
the same way it was done in medieval Europe. These rules have their
roots in the [Siete
Partidas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siete_Partidas), that dates to
the 13th century.

Of course, elite families marrying one another is not a new idea, but it
is more than just wealthy families using marriage to solidify alliances.
There is a biological factor to it. The people in the elite got there
originally by having elite cognitive skills. Modern elites like to throw
around the term meritocracy, but they know biology counts for a lot. It
is why you do not often see a member of the elite marrying one of the
servants. Arnold learned that lesson. The one on the left is from the
house cleaner, while those on the right are with a Kennedy.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Arnold.png"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-13769" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 613px) 100vw, 613px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Arnold.png 613w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Arnold-300x121.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Arnold-500x202.png 500w"
width="613" height="248" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Arnold.png)

 

Another thing about elites is they tend to get what they want. One of
the benefits of being in charge is you get to shape the institutions you
control. A great example is the Fabian Society. This was not some
program hatched by mill workers in their free time. It was a hobby for
British elites in the late 19th and early 20th century. The Fabians
managed to get most of what they wanted pushed through over time. The
reason for that is they convinced their fellow elites it was a good
program.

An interesting bit from the Fabian program, which they called the “True
Radical Programme” was intended to be far more radical than the other
reform efforts. They wanted it to be seen as way-out on the fringe. Yet,
things like women’s suffrage, paying MPs a salary and public education
eventually became normal. It is something to keep in mind when thinking
about the war on men or the waves of anti-white agitation we see in the
media. Today’s crazy elite culture is tomorrow’s new normal.

Of course, the real reason elites tend to get what they want is they are
better than the rest of us. They are smarter, better socialized and they
have greater access to the stock of knowledge relevant to being in
charge. Americans despise the idea of a ruling elite, so the people in
charge spend a lot of time pretending they do not exist. It is why our
form of democracy works so well. The people keep voting for different
candidates, but the people in charge never change. That is what we are
seeing with Donald Trump right now.

That is probably why the global elite is so worried about the rising
tide of nationalism through the West. The constant moaning about
“threats to our democracy” really do not mean the people in charge care
about actual democracy. The game of bad cop/worse cop we see in our
politics is not a bug. It is a feature. The process of voting has been
rigged by the ruling class such that the results are fixed. No matter
which candidate you choose, you get the same results, because the same
people own all of the candidates.

What nationalism does is tie the candidate to a group of people. The
politicians of Germany care only for the interests of Germans, not
migrants and refugees. Once “them” is no longer as important as “us”,
the definitions get more granular. Each pol them looks at his district
or province as “us” and the rest of the country as “them.” This makes it
exceedingly hard for a national elite, much less a global elite, to
corrupt the political system with cash, favors and access to elite
society. That is bad for global elites.

This is another reminder that civic nationalism is a sucker’s play. The
rules we have in place today are designed to lock in the status quo. No
challenge to the status quo, therefore, can be based on assiduously
adhering to the rules. In fact, the goal is to turn adherence to the
rules into a destabilizing force. When the people in charge no longer
trust the rules to protect their position, they change the rules. It’s
why Progressives are campaigning to end freedom of speech. The truth is
their enemy.
