---
title: "Feudalism.Net"
date: "2018-08-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14758"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14758"
---

There are certain words and phrases that have lost their formal
definition in favor of an emotional definition, so the use of them
usually says more about the person using them, than the object being
described. Like “fascism”, the word “feudalism” was mostly a term of
disparagement in the 18th and 19th century. According to scholars of the
subject, the word “feudal” was first used in the 17th century, as in
*feudal order*. It later came into more common usage via Marxist
political propaganda.

Just because feudalism was largely used as a meaningless epithet, it
does not mean it did not exist. Scholars generally agree that feudalism
was “a set of reciprocal legal and military obligations among the
warrior nobility, revolving around the three key concepts of lords,
vassals and fiefs.” The lord owned the land, and the vassal was granted
use of it by the lord. The land was the fief. In exchange for legal and
physical protection, the lord expected service, usually military
service, but also rents.

Marxists later pointed out that this system relied on the lord owning
the one thing of value, the land. The person at the top of the feudal
order had a monopoly on the one store of value and that gave him a
monopoly on the law. The old saying about the golden rule is true. The
man with the gold makes the rules. This is why as coinage made a
comeback in the medieval period, kings took control of the mints. It was
both a source a wealth, seigniorage, and a source of power.

A useful example of this is the decision by Henry VIII to dissolve the
monasteries of the Catholic Church. By seizing church lands, which
constituted about a quarter of the national wealth, and redistributing
it to favored aristocrats, Henry fundamentally altered English society.
He weakened the power of the old nobles, by filling their ranks with new
members loyal to Henry. He also eliminated an alternative source of
economic power and moral authority in English society.

Feudalism only works when a small elite controls the source of wealth.
In Europe, as Christianity spread, the Church required lands, becoming
one of the most powerful forces in society. The warrior elite was
exclusively Catholic, thus they had a loyalty to the Pope, as God’s
representative on earth. Therefore, the system of controlling wealth not
only had a direct financial benefit to the people at the top, but it
also had the blessing of God’s representative, who sat atop the whole
system.

That is something to keep in mind as we see technology evolve into a
feudal system, where a small elite controls the resources and grants
permission to users. The software oligopolies are now [shifting all of
their licensing to a subscription
model](https://www.thisisinsider.com/apple-secret-meeting-developers-new-york-subscriptions-app-store-2018-7).
It is not just the mobile platforms. Business software is adopting the
same model. The users have no ownership rights. Instead, they are
renters, subject to terms and conditions imposed by the developer or
platform holder. The users are literally a tenant.

The main reason developers are shifting to this model is that they
cannot charge high fees for their software, due to the mass of software
on the market. Competition has driven down prices. Further, customers
are not inclined to pay high maintenance fees when they can buy new
systems at competitive rates. The solution is stop selling the stuff and
start renting it. This fits the oligopoly scheme as it ultimately puts
them in control of the developers.

It also means the end of any useful development. Take a look at the
situation Stefan Molyneux faces. He has been otherized, so the Great
Church of Technology is now in the process of having him expelled from
the internet. As he wrote in a post, he invests twelve years building
his business on-line, only to find out he owns none of it. He was always
just a tenant farmer, who foolishly invested millions in YouTube. Like a
peasant, he is now about to be evicted.

How long before someone like [this
monster](http://time.com/5368534/colorado-cake-baker-gay-marriage-gender-transition/)
discovers that Google and Apple will no longer allow him to use any apps
on his phone? Or maybe he is denied access to his accounting system? How
long before his insurer cuts off his business insurance, claiming the
threat from homosexual terrorists poses too high of a risk? Federal law
prevents the electric company from shutting off his power due to
politics, but federal law used to prevent secret courts and secret
warrants.

The power of the church in medieval Europe was not just spiritual. They
owned vast amounts of land and could marshal tremendous resources in
support of or in defiance of the secular rulers. In fact, this is the
reason the Church acquired lands. What drives the tech overlords of
today is exactly the same thing. Their desire to impose their moral
order on the rest of us is driving them to monopolize the source of
power in the information age. They are imposing a new form of feudalism
on us.

The difference today is that this new religion is ill-defined and lacks
the outward symbols to distinguish it from the rest of society. The
rules of the new religion are always changing, making it impossible to
predict. In the 12th century everyone was clear about who set the moral
order. The local bishop may have been nuts, but he was predictably nuts.
The new religion is formless. It is an anarcho-tyranny because it is an
anarcho-religion.

The solution to this will not be the same as last time. There is no
secular authority willing to challenge the power of the new theogarchs.
Mark Zuckerberg went to Congress and lied his face off, knowing they
were afraid to lay a hand on him. After  the 2020 election, social media
will have banned Trump and his supporters. The solution is the oligarchs
will have to fear the peasantry in real space. The same civil
authorities that are too weak to oppose the theogarchs will be too weak
to protect them.
