---
title: "To Kill A People"
date: "2018-07-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14443"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14443"
---

Youth <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/14/sports/world-cup/soccer-youth-decline.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">participation</a> in soccer continues to
decline, despite the best efforts of the cultural elite to promote it.

*Over the past three years, the percentage of 6- to 12-year-olds playing
soccer regularly has dropped nearly 14 percent, to 2.3 million players,
according to a study by the Sports & Fitness Industry Association, which
has analyzed youth athletic trends for 40 years. The number of children
who touched a soccer ball even once during the year, in organized play
or otherwise, also has fallen significantly.*

*In general, participation in youth sports nationwide has declined in
the past decade, as children gravitate to electronic diversions and
other distractions.*

*Yet in recent years, while soccer continued declining, baseball and
basketball experienced upticks, buoyed by developmental programs begun
by Major League Baseball and the National Basketball Association.*

This not a surprise. Soccer never had strong appeal in America. Youth
soccer leagues were suburban safe spaces for white kids. No one says it
that way, but that is the reality of youth soccer in America. As a
result, the soccer infrastructure is tied to the white suburbs, which
means it requires lots of parents volunteering to make it work and lots
of cash to hold it all together. Maintaining a segregated anything in
modern America is expensive and complicated.

In fairness, all sports have seen a decline in youth participation.
People like to blame video games and social media, but those are
symptoms. Youth sports require a high degree of parental support and
involvement. They also require infrastructure. That local ball field
exists because the city, town or county makes it a priority. That
happens when you have a society of strong families adhering to
traditional roles. Get rid of the strong families and community, and the
leagues go away too.

Most people struggle to understand long term trends, so it is not
surprising that it is easy to peddle the idea that video games are the
cause of this. Parents today see the decline and just assume it is a new
thing. The fact is kids vegetating in front of a video screen is just
another symptom of the same main cause. When most kids grew up in normal
homes, there was a more organic structure to their lives, so they were
less likely to indulge in whatever strikes the fancy of a child.

It is the hidden cost of putting women to work. Those mothers and
grandmothers, staying home to raise their kids, provided an
infrastructure to life. In stable, healthy societies, women maintain the
social life of the community. When women are working ten hours a day at
an office, that social work does not get done, so something else fills
the void left by those working women. That has been the sewage of
popular culture, along with state- provided stand-ins for the parents.

Traditional sex roles also work as a bulwark against mischief. Fifty
years ago, even public schools in poor areas could expect plenty of
mothers volunteering to help with various school projects. They would
also be the main labor pool at the church and other voluntary community
organizations. It is hard to corrupt these organizations when mothers
and grandmothers, people with skin in the game, are there to make sure
those organizations serve their interests.

The fact is, if you were looking to exterminate a people, by that I mean
destroy their culture and identity, the first thing you would do is put
the women to work. It is not an accident that invaders who kill off the
men and marry the women almost always adapt to the culture they
conquered. The culture of a people is their women. Men have a role, but
primarily as the guardians of the engine of their culture. Women are the
ovens that bake the bread. Take away the oven and there can be no bread.

By ripping women out of their homes and putting them to work like field
slaves, modernity has destroyed the natural framework of society. The
state has tried to fill the void, which is why per capita, inflation
adjusted government spending has quadrupled as women moved from the home
to the workplace. All that government supervision of children and
maintenance of synthetic community organizations comes with a direct
cost, which shows up in paychecks and the cost of goods.

On a more note. What the modern age has been is an elaborate
strip-mining operation, where the social capital is monetized and
carried away. Another example is what we see with Amazon destroying
retail. The price of cheap stuff delivered to your office is the
harvesting of the social value of local business. Instead of Johnny’s
Appliance Warehouse sponsoring your kid’s baseball team, it is a
government run program paid for by your property taxes.

Again, if the point is to kill a people, the first step is to put their
women to work, turning them into economic units, like farm animals. From
there, it is easy to strip out the rest of the social capital that
maintains the culture. Before long you have a collection of people with
no identity of their own, wholly dependent upon their masters. That is
where we are headed as a society. It is also why fertility rates are
falling in the West. Why would anyone bring a child into a life of
pointless work and consumption?
