---
title: "Behind The Hive Door"
date: "2018-05-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13789"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13789"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, American newspapers made the decision to
give away their content on-line. It never made a lot of sense, as
circulation had been falling for a long time and there was no model for
monetizing on-line content, other than porn. It was a classic example of
people getting caught up in a fad, without thinking through the
consequences. The result has been decades of steep revenue declines,
bankruptcies and layoffs at major broadsheets. <a
href="https://tennesseestar.com/2018/05/08/warren-buffet-says-all-but-three-newspapers-have-no-longterm-future/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Warren Buffet</a> thinks all but three
newspapers are doomed.

The funny thing about what has happened to newspapers and  the news
media in general, is they still don’t seem to understand what has
happened to them. Maybe in the business offices they see the reality of
their situation, but the people in the media, like reporters and
editors, seem clueless. It’s as if they believe some sort of bad juju is
the cause of the trouble in their business. You see that in <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-partisan/wp/2018/04/26/a-farewell-to-free-journalism/?utm_term=.d97013fcee2a"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this post by Megan McArdle</a> on the
growing number of news sites that are adopting a subscription model for
their sites.

*For more than a century, magazines and newspapers were what’s known as
a “two-sided market”: We sold subscriptions to you, our readers, and
once you’d subscribed, we sold your eyeballs to our advertisers. That
was necessary because, unbeknownst to you, your subscription dollars
often didn’t even cover the cost of printing and delivering the physical
pieces of paper. They rarely covered much, if any, of the cost of
actually reporting and writing the stories printed on those pages. And
you’d probably be astonished at how expensive it is to report a single,
relatively simple story.*

***But that was okay, because we controlled a valuable pipeline to
reader eyeballs — a pipeline advertisers wanted to fill with information
about their products. You guys got your journalism on the cheap, and
advertisers got the opportunity to tell you about the fantastic
incentive package available to qualified buyers on the brand-new 1985
Chevy Impala.***

*Then the Internet came along, and suddenly, we didn’t own the only
pipeline anymore. Anyone can throw up a Web page. And over the past 20
years, anyone did — far more than could support actual advertiser
demand.*

This is exactly backward. Sure, there was a period when the local paper
often had a monopoly on news in their distribution area. Once radio and
TV got better at delivering news, circulations declined. The reality is
the newspaper was a delivery vehicle for employment ads, classifieds and
circulars. The news was “free” because people were willing to pay a
small fee for the ads, oddly enough. Sure, some portion of the
readership would pay for the news, but nowhere near the majority of the
subscriber base.

*At the moment, in concession to your feelings on the subject, most
paywalls are relatively porous. (Yes, we know about the tricks you use
to subvert them.) But as more and more publications move behind
paywalls, you should probably expect that to change. The less we have to
worry about competition from free sites, the more those paywalls will
tighten. (To be clear, this reflects my opinion based on analysis of
industry-wide economics, not any knowledge of employer business
strategy, current or former.)*

*And that will be a sad thing, because the old open Internet was a
marvelous gift to readers, a vast cornucopia of great writing upon which
we’ve been gorging for the past two decades. But there’s a limit to how
long one can keep handing out gifts without some reciprocity. At the end
of the day, however much information wants to be free, writers still
want to get paid.*

The amusing thing about this post is the writer carries on like media
people were doing us a huge favor by providing “free news” on-line. Now
the proles have to suck it up and pay the toll so the chattering skulls
can continue in the lifestyle they have become so accustomed. The
reality is going to much different. As it stand, the only news site to
make a pay model work has been the Wall Street Journal. No one really
knows if a subscriber model will even work, much less keep the army of
chattering skulls in six figure salaries.

The sinister part of the post is “the less we have to worry about
competition from free sites, the more those paywalls will tighten.”
That’s their dream. If they can starve everyone else of revenue, then
they will whither away. At that point the desperate public will rush to
pay the establishment propaganda organs for the right to be lectured.
These people are so ridiculously entitled, there is no doubt they
believe this is possible. The fact is, if Megan McArdle gets hit by a
bus tomorrow, more people will be worried about the bus.

The way to look at the news “business” is as something other than a
business. For a long time, elite propaganda was financed by a monopoly
of the delivery of small ads. Then a group of rich guys figured out how
to take that business away. Cable news is facing the same problem. They
got to tax every cable home a buck a month to finance government class
propaganda. Now cord cutting is killing off that model. What’s about to
happen is the rich people will have to pay for their own propaganda, by
subsidizing these news sites.

What that means is far fewer chattering skulls living six figure lives.
If Megan McArdle had to earn her keep like the various YouTube stars or
alt-right figures, she would be taking in borders and doing laundry for
the neighbors, in addition to her weekly column. But, none of these
people can see what’s coming, because they believe their own BS. They
really do think they are a priestly class that gives a greedy public the
truth they demand. Tucker Carlson was right about these people. They are
stupid rich kids. Deluded ones too.
