---
title: "Day Walkers"
date: "2018-03-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13324"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13324"
---

In the novel [*I Am
Legend*](https://www.amazon.com/I-Am-Legend-Richard-Matheson/dp/0765357151/).
the hero finds himself as the lone survivor of a pandemic that turns
people into a form of zombie-vampire. The infected get a fever, appear
to die, but then come back to life turned into a blood thirsty monster.
The book is credited with starting the genre that remains a popular
concept for movies and TV series. The book is a little more realistic,
in that the monsters are not un-dead. They are merely infected with some
sort of virus.

Unlike most Hollywood versions, the book sets up an interesting set of
conditions that makes the hero’s story plausible. Again, the infected
are not rotting corpses running around randomly looking for brains.
Instead, the infected have a degree of awareness and sentience. They
coordinate their efforts, plan ahead and seem to understand what is
happening to them. They are also strictly limited to nighttime activity.
That means they come out well past sunset and retreat before dawn.

This sets up the bulk of the book. The hero has about fourteen hours per
day to operate without fearing the vampires. The story is set in Los
Angeles, so weather is not an element of the story. He uses his time to
make his home impenetrable, scavenge for supplies and research the cause
of the pandemic. Because he has nothing but time, he eventually figures
out that some sort of a virus has infected everyone and he uses this
information to get better at killing the vampires as they sleep .

The book is worth reading, even if you have seen all of the zombie
shows. The purpose here though is the math of the situation. The
surviving humans in such a situation, where society is slowly being
conquered by a weird rage virus, would be faced with a simple problem.
They own the daylight hours and therefore must use that time to overcome
their disadvantage at night, when the infected come out to hunt. Put
another way, they must win more in the daytime than they lose at night.

Let us assume a scale of zero to ten. The infected have the maximum
ability at night, so they are a ten for the ten hours a total darkness,
because their senses are tuned for it by the virus. Humans, in contrast,
usually sleep at night. We can still operate, using artificial light and
other contrivances, but at best we are maybe a three. Some people will
be better than others, but over all, the human effectiveness is a three.
Simple math gives the vampires a 100-to-30 edge at night.

Now, things change in the daylight. The ten ours when the sun is clearly
in the sky gives the humans their best advantage. It is the ultimate
advantage because the vampires are in their sleep phase. The humans are
at a ten in the daytime, while the vampires are a zero, so this changes
the math to humans 130, vampires 100. If we take the in between hours
around dusk and dawn, and give the vampires a five and the humans an
eight, then the overall math is humans 132, vampires 120.

The thing is though, the humans have a period of unrestricted movement.
This unlimited advantage during the day means they can reset the
battlefield every day, giving themselves a little edge in the nighttime.
They could vampire-proof their compounds and expand their safe area by
going around and clearing the vampires out from their hiding places.
This is what happens in the book. The hero gets so good at killing
vampires in the daytime, that their numbers rapidly diminish.

This makes for a bad movie, so the script writers make the humans extra
stupid so they never take advantage of their assets. They also make the
infected super-human or able to defy the laws of physics in some way.
They know the audience will side with the humans and they know people
like being in the underdog role. The long running television series,
*The Walking Dead*, has the infected magically animated, even as their
flesh is long past the point of being useful.

This is the mistake outsider political movements often make. They see
themselves as the humans, fighting some evil, rather than viewing
themselves as the virus infected zombies looking to overthrow the
natural order. What makes the Matheson book so good, is he looked at the
situation from the point of view of the infected. In the book, some of
the infected begin to figure out how to operate in the daytime hours.
This completely changes the math.

When Richard Spencer walks onto a college campus to give a speech, he is
no different from an infected zombie vampire showing up in a camp of
humans, to sell the benefits of vampirism. It is no wonder they set upon
him with a fury. More important, he is operating in their space, where
they have an infinite advantage. It’s a fight that the infected cannot
win, because they have no ability to operate in that environment. The
same is true of planned public protests.

Just as the vampires in the novel carried the day by adapting to the
daytime, the alt-right needs to become day walkers. If instead of a
Spencer strolling on campus to get killed, imagine an alt-right guy
getting an IT job at the NY Times. Imagine if Pax Dickinson was still
operating as a CTO at a major media company. It is the reason the Left
is obsessed with doxing people. They lie awake at night thinking about
day walkers getting inside the wire.

The alt-right and affiliated groups need to forget about confrontation.
Sure, some of their members and supporters are there just so they can
brawl with Antifa, but an army of Chris Cantwells is an army of vampires
that are useless in the daytime. There’s nothing to gain from losing by
playing by their rules. The alt-right needs to go underground, in order
to become day walkers, with the ability to walk among the Left in their
own areas, learning how to turn their advantages into liabilities.
