---
title: "The New Flagellants"
date: "2018-10-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15307"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15307"
---

Flagellation is the beating of the body with special implements such as
whips, lashes, rods, the cat o’ nine tails, etc. Usually it was done
involuntarily, but in the medieval period it became a voluntary form of
penance. The Benedictine monk Peter Damian is credited with introducing
self-flagellation as a form of penance in the 11th century. Later, an
Italian monk named Dominic Loricatus introduced self-flagellation as a
form of self-mortification, which when performed in public, also became
a public demonstration of piety.

The Flagellants were a 14th century movement, that sprung up in response
to the black plague. These fanatics would parade through the streets
beating themselves bloody to cleanse the town of sin. It was assumed
that the plague was the result of sin, so the cleaning of sin would,
presumably, please God enough for him to end the plague. The movement
started in northern Italy but quickly spread to Germany. There they took
on the white robes and rhythmic chanting that has come to be associated
with the movement.

The Church initially tolerated the movement but soon realized that
fanatics are worse than barbarians in times of trouble, so they
suppressed the movement. Secular rulers were not all that thrilled with
them either, as anyone claiming to appeal directly to God is an obvious
challenge to earthly authority. Compounding matters, many of the
flagellant groups were influenced by messianic ideas about the coming
age of bliss. As a result, the Church condemned them and the secular
rulers had them burned at the stake to make the point.

While the movement is long gone, the idea is still with us. The link
between piety and self-denial has probably been a part of human society
since the beginning. Holy men have walled themselves off from society
and earthly pleasures, as a sign of their piety, but also as a way of
avoiding temptation. Prophets have given up all earthy pleasures to warn
society of their doom. In the West, self-denial has always been closely
tied to piety, while pleasure, especially carnal pleasure, is associated
with sin.

This is most obvious in the climate change movement, which blends Old
Testament prophecy with pagan nature worship. The true believers are
sure that man’s hedonistic exploitation of the environment is making the
earth angry. The result is rising global temperatures, which will lead
to an apocalypse. When Al Gore said the earth had a fever, he did not
mean it like an infection. Instead, the fever is due to the earth
becoming increasingly angry as human activity. Earth is boiling mad, so
to speak.

The first iteration of the cult focused on energy. The earth was angry
because humans were using fossil fuels. On the surface, it sounded like
the old environmentalism dressed up as a science. The greens always
hated industry. A key part of environmentalism has always been a
hostility to modernity, particularly industry, which was viewed as
immoral and at odds with nature. By going after fossil fuel because of
global warming, they were turning their moral opposition to modernity
into a scientific claim.

Lately, the movement has shifted away from their claims about fossil
fuels, which went nowhere with the public, to attacking other modern
pleasures. A recent “study” claims that [modern farming is making the
earth
angry](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2018/oct/10/huge-reduction-in-meat-eating-essential-to-avoid-climate-breakdown),
so we will have to stop eating tasty food and switch to a diet heavy on
unpleasant stuff. That means sharp reductions in meat eating and dairy,
while sharply increasing our consumption of beans, seeds, and gruel. The
promise of this approach is it now gives vegetarianism the veneer of
science.

You will note that vegetarianism was never about health. Spend five
minutes with a vegan and they will, of course, have told you they are a
vegan, but make it clear they are better than you because they no longer
enjoy their food. That age old desire to please the gods by eschewing
earthly pleasures. Now that the warmists have joined in, a meal of grass
and twigs is not just a personal act of piety. It is a sacrifice for the
planet. The only thing missing is a good beating with a cat o’ nine
tails, along with that soy burger.

Mencken famously said that Puritanism is the haunting fear that someone,
somewhere, may be happy. That is a good way of describing all forms of
environmentalism. They never come forward with a plan to save the earth
that does not require misery. Of course, it is not *their* misery that
haunts them. Environmentalism is focused on *your* misery. The vegan is
no longer happy being smug and self-righteous with his kale juice. He
demands the state force you to drink the stuff. Their piety heavily
depends on your misery.

Like everything else about this age, the Gaia worshipers are not
appealing to the gods, but to our rulers. In an age where the state is
worshiped, it is no wonder that it fills the role of God for the modern
flagellants. The thing is, unlike the flagellants of old, the new
version is not appealing to God for relief on our behalf. They are
demanding the god of this age punish us for our sins. Instead of the
faithful whipping themselves to a bloody pulp in the town square to
appease God, their piety requires them to whip us.

Time to bring back burning them at the stake.
