---
title: "Magic Makes The Stuff God Happy"
date: "2018-10-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15349"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15349"
---

One of the things normal people struggle with when they look over the
great divide, at the arguments of our side, is the lack of interest in
economics. In the lands of the normie, the cry of “socialism” remains
salient, despite the fact America is a socialist country and has been
for as long as anyone reading this has been alive. Still, the people of
whiteness remain locked in that old dynamic that says the fight is
between free market capitalism and command and control socialism. This
is especially true of older whites.

Perhaps the most powerful tool deployed against us is the weaponizing of
the economy, by turning it into the third man in the room whenever there
is a debate about politics. The economy is like a mysterious god, who
can get angry at the wrong policy and punish the people with high prices
or job losses. This is especially true in libertarian and conservative
circles. They are convinced that the whole point of life is to work and
then buy cheap stuff from China. Anything that threatens that is viewed
as un-American.

Democracy has also become an enchanted being that, unlike the economy,
needs to be defended at all costs. While the right side of the political
class worships the economy, the left side worships democracy. Everything
they do not like is a threat to democracy, even the results of
elections. Democracy and the economy make up the modern Janus that
presides over the beginning and end of all political debates. Both sides
ritually invoke his name whenever it is time to debate the issues of the
day.

[This
post](https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2018/10/innovation-democracys-unique-advantage.html)
at Marginal Revolution is a great example. The comments are worth
reading, as they reveal this strange worship of both democracy and the
economy. The skeptics you find in the comment thread are all skeptics of
democracy. You do not see any doubts about the righteousness and
superiority of the economy face of our god. Even when someone points out
that the Nazis were pretty good at running their economy for a while, no
one seems to pick up on the fact that GDP is not the measure of a
people.

There are a lot of ways to characterize the civic religion that animates
our ruling class, but one of them is that they believe the right
ceremonies will make the stuff god happy. That is why they insist that
diversity makes businesses more profitable and universities more
intellectually dynamic. One of the bloggers at Marginal Revolution has
argued that open borders is a moral imperative because it makes the
economy stronger. He literally believes the stuff god is carefully
monitoring immigration policy in the West.

When put together, the worship of democracy and the economy is the
thermite reaction that is destroying America. If democracy is a good
thing, then more of it must be a better thing. The result being the
expansion of the franchise to hostile aliens. If the GDP is all that
matters when measuring the health of society, then any criticism of the
ruling oligarchy is an offense to the stuff god. It is not an accident
that the worship of both democracy and the economy has increased as
social cohesion has declined.

This may be at the root of the strange hostility to the past. Modern
America is a strange place, in that the ruling class is composed of
amnesiacs. What they say today has no connection to what they said
yesterday. It is as if every day is a new day, and the past never
existed. Mendacity certainly plays a role, but the never-ending quest
for more requires ignorance of the past. To remember yesterday is to
contemplate the trade-offs that made today possible. That calls the
worship of the economy into question.

There is also the sad dearth of beauty in this age. The classical period
featured a celebration of human beauty. The artists strove to capture
the ideal of man in those beautiful statues we still have today. The
medieval period had the celebration of God and his love for man. Walk
into an old cathedral and you immediately feel the essence of that
relationship. Of course, our canon is packed with poetry exploring the
beauty of life, all of which was composed in a prior age, by men who are
strangers to us now.

Walk into a modern building today and you know what it is like to be in
the chute at a slaughterhouse. Modern art is a mockery of the idea of
art. It is a celebration of pointless vanity and nihilism, if such a
thing can be called a celebration. Stroll through the modern parking lot
and it is like being in a black and white movie. The cars all look the
same and come in black, white or some shade of grey. A time traveler
could be forgiven if he thought the communists had won the Cold War and
imposed their aesthetic on America.

That is the result of worshiping democracy and the economy. The stuff
god is a selfish god, who takes the hopes of the faithful and turns them
into cheap goods from China, that get tossed away to be replaced by more
cheap stuff. It is a pointless form of worship that treats life as a
transaction. Just as Evangelicals love Israel, despite the fact [Jews
despise
Evangelicals](https://www.city-journal.org/html/why-don%E2%80%99t-jews-christians-who-them-13068.html),
Americans worship the stuff god, despite the fact he hates humanity. It
is a lethal codependency that can only end in death.
