---
title: "Zero-D Chess"
date: "2018-10-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15414"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15414"
---

The paleocons were right about many things, particularly about the
growth of the managerial state, but they were not right about
everything. There were things they simply could not imagine, much in the
same way sci-fi writers cannot imagine the cultural implications of
technology. No matter how smart you are, you can only think so many
moves ahead. One thing the paleocons got wrong about the managerial
state is just how damaging it was to the people inside it.

<a
href="https://www.realclearinvestigations.com/articles/2018/10/26/doj_ties_a_trump_fisa_release_to_obstruction.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">This post</a> about the scheming of Rod
Rosenstein and Robert Mueller is a good example of how weakness is
viewed as strength by people inside the system.

*In court filings last week the Department of Justice deployed what
could be the nuclear option in its latest effort to prevent President
Trump from declassifying information regarding FISA warrants used to spy
on his campaign aide Carter Page: It is claiming that such a move would
interfere with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation.*

*This is the first time the DOJ has explicitly made this argument
implying personal peril for the president, since interference could open
Trump to charges of obstruction of justice. Until now, the department
has argued that declassifying the documents threatened national
security.*

*In the 178-page court document, DOJ officials said they had “determined
that disclosure of redacted information in the Carter Page FISA
documents could reasonably be expected to interfere with the pending
investigation into Russian election interference.”*

*That rationale has heightened suspicions among congressional
investigators that the special counsel is being used to prevent the
disclosure of possible FBI abuses and crimes committed during the Russia
probe. Opened by the FBI in July 2016, the Russia investigation was
taken over by Mueller when Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein
appointed him special counsel in 2017.*

*By the DOJ’s logic, according to one source, the fact that the
investigation is ongoing protects it from scrutiny, including
the president’s.*

The post goes on to explain that the reptilian Rod Rosenstein
constructed an elaborate trap for Trump. He can allow Mueller to
investigate the administration to death, while covering up the
subversion and possible treason committed by the FBI. He can also go
public with these facts and be charged with obstruction. The writers of
the post no doubt think this is brilliantly clever and they are probably
correct about what the subversive Rod Rosenstein is plotting.

It suffers from one glaring defect. It is not based in factual reality.
There is no doubt that the subversive Rod Rosenstein is covering up his
own crimes here. He signed off on a lot of this stuff and he fears being
turned into the fall guy in this caper. His natural inclination is to
assume he is the outsider and that the rest, who do not share his
loyalties, will somehow pin the blame on him. Like John Dean, he is
playing a double game hoping to escape punishment.

This is a great example of the core flaw of managerialism. It turns
everything into a cheeky parlor game, in which the winner is the one to
come up with the most verbally clever solution. The people inside the
system come to believe that is actually how the world works. Because
their world is a one governed by words and gestures, they start to
assume the outer world functions the same way. It creates a false sense
of superiority in a class of soft men.

There’s no doubt that the bureaucrats inside the system think they
really outfoxed Trump, but they are mistaken, because this is not how
the real world works. Trump is the President. He has real power. For
example, he can declassify those documents and release them to the
public. No one else can do that with the stroke of a pen. Rosenstein can
conjure all the cheeky word puzzles he likes, but Trump retains that
power. In fact, they may be playing into his hands with this effort.

That’s the real fight here. Rod Rosenstein can threaten obstruction of
justice all he likes, but he has not power. Trump has real power. He can
address the nation one night, reveal the secrets Rosenstein is trying to
hide and then fire all of the people involved in this subversive plot
and its cover up. Congress, even one run by Democrats, is not going to
impeach Trump for exposing corruption. At least, they would be wise to
not go down that dangerous path.

That’s probably why Trump has been sitting on this stuff until after the
election. He has no fear of Rosenstein. He just needs to get through the
election and then figure out the new game board. If the GOP keeps the
House, then maybe he lets Congress work this case via hearings. If it is
the Democrats, then maybe he calls their bluff and releases these
documents to the public during the lame duck session. He just has to not
worry about people like Rosenstein.
