---
title: "They Hate You"
date: "2018-08-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14666"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14666"
---

The Sarah Jeong story has probably been the best thing to happen to our
side since Trump came down that escalator. The challenge of this age is
in convincing typical white people that it is not socialism they should
fear. It is extermination. There are still people waddling around
talking about socialism. Mention race to them and they start
hyperventilating about their constitutional principles. What the Sarah
Jeong story does it make it impossible to avoid the elephant in the
room.

It’s not that this Asian airhead hates white people. Blacks have been
out in public talking about how much they hate white people since the
Civil Rights era. White people have been trained to accept this, by
assuming it is meaningless. Blacks are powerless, so their hatreds are
no threat. Then you have the subversives like Ben Shapiro telling them
that black hatred of whites is bad for blacks because it keeps them from
showing up at CPAC every year to take selfies with adoring white people.

Asians are supposed to be different. They are the model minority. White
people just assume that Asians are on their side. They work hard, avoid
crime and social dysfunction. They come here looking for a chance, give
their kids nice names like Sarah and send them off to good colleges.
You’ll note that you never hear anyone suggest we should end immigration
from Asia. In the blossoming race war, Asians are never in the
discussion, because white people assume they are good people.

Suddenly one of the model minorities has revealed that she hates white
people and even more disturbingly, the people known for eating dogs
apparently think white people smell like dogs. It adds a whole new
element to what the coalition of non-whites has in mind for us once they
get total control. More important, this white hating Asian migrant is
defended by so-called conservatives. Ben Shapiro wore his tiny little
fingers raw tweeting out defenses of the Times decision to back Jeong.

The initial response from white people was to celebrate progressive
values by howling about the racism. When that went nowhere, they moved
onto howling about the hypocrisy. When the response from the left was to
laugh in their face, white people were forced to face reality. The other
side are not socialists. They are a coalition of non-whites and some
traitors, who are held together by a hatred of white people and the
fantasy of a non-white world. They hate white people. That’s it.

White people will try hard to rationalize it and force themselves back
into the comfortable role of doormat to the left, but the scales will
fall from the eyes of many whites. Many may have already come to terms
with this reality, but it is the behavior of people like Ben Shapiro
that is the eye-opener. The guy who recently said racists should be
hounded out of their jobs, is now defending Jeong and the New York
Times, either from a position of solidarity or out of craven
opportunism.

Another aspect of this is that it undercuts the argument made by
conventional conservatives about their vaunted principles. The other
side has no rules, and they have no intention of limiting themselves
with rules. All the breast-beating about racism was a lie and it always
was a lie. Since the left controls the moral framework, they have just
taken the first step toward normalizing tribalism. Jared Taylor is now
Ben Shapiro’s moral superior.

This story also offers a chance to point out to white people that there
is no bargaining with these people. A bargain requires a degree of good
faith on both sides and some way to hold both sides to the deal. The
Left thinks it has a moral duty to do whatever is necessary to destroy
the rest of us, so they are not just allowed to break the rules and lie
about it. They are morally obligated to use any means necessary to win,
which is why they named one of the activist groups [By Any Means
Necessary](http://www.bamn.com/).

Now, white people have been finding ways to roll over and play dead for
a long time, so this event will not suddenly turn them into
identitarians. Whites have a habit of internalizing each Progressive
outrage. It’s important to remind the normie white person in your life
that the other side never quits, they can never be shamed into giving up
on their goals. They lost over 30 votes on homosexual marriage but kept
at it until they won one and then got the courts to enshrine homosexual
marriage as a founding principle.

If you think the defense of Sarah Jeong by subversives like Ben Shapiro
is an end point, you are mistaken. Now that they have established that
it is okay to hire virulent antiwhites, the next step will be the firing
of whites because the antiwhites find them upsetting. In other words,
the presence of whites will be grounds to claim the workplace is hostile
to non-whites, so the whites must be fired. How long before Justice
Roberts claims the Founders always wanted whites to be non-citizens?
