---
title: "The Great Awakening"
date: "2018-08-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14693"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14693"
---

Ron Unz has put out a handful of long columns under the American Pravda
category on his personal website. These are posts where he digs into the
official narrative on a subject and relates his experience with
discovering the truth. They are packed with lots of well researched bits
about the topic, often from obscure sources that have been erased from
the official narrative. To his credit, he digs into the credibility of
his source material, which is always useful.

They are a bit too long, but that may be a matter of taste. There is
something about reading from a screen that makes long articles less
pleasant. People have investigated this and found that shorter is better
than longer on-line. It’s one reason the long form essay is going away.
Most people consume their content on-line, so they prefer short pithy
articles. There’s also the fact that most of this stuff is read at work,
where you steal a few minutes to read something before lunch or on a
break.

Anyway, this <a
href="http://www.unz.com/runz/american-pravda-post-war-france-and-post-war-germany/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">entry</a> on post-war Europe was
interesting. The post-liberation reprisals in France and Belgium get
some mention in the official narrative, but almost exclusively with
regards to women who slept with German soldiers. The gang-like warfare
between communists and their enemies is never mentioned. Of course,
there is never any mention of what happened to German soldiers in
prisoner of war camps. War is an ugly business, and ideological war is
the ugliest.

Regarding the ideological aspects of it, the blind hatred of the Germans
by the American elite is never discussed. That’s why no one learns about
the Morgenthau Plan in their history classes. It is another example of
how ideological enemies cannot see the humanity in one another. The
rage-fueled progressives were no different than their opponents in the
war. They came to see the other side as the pure expression of evil and
wanted them exterminated. The Morgenthau Plan was about genocide.

The most interesting part of theses posts is that they fit into the “red
pill” experience you hear from many who journey to this side of the
divide. Not everyone makes the journey, as they were always here, but
did not know there was a “here.” Many do have a moment when the light
went on and they either began to question their view of the world or
simply changed their mind about some important item. Often, it is a book
or article that is the triggering event.

Of course, none of his posts would be possible without modern
technology. When the only store of knowledge was controlled by the
people running the official narrative, there was no way to red pill
anyone or be red pilled yourself. Unless you found a stash of old books,
you had to accept the official narrative. Whatever happens in these
troubled times, the fact that the society that produced the
technological revolution could be consumed by it suggests nature in the
long run, is self-correcting.

The article on post-war Europe, brings up something that often gets
forgotten. It is not enough to undermine the moral legitimacy of the
prevailing orthodoxy. That phony narrative sold to us is not just
propaganda in support of the current order. It gives Americans a reason
to feel patriotic. It makes us proud of who we are as currently defined
by the people in charge. Learning that it is a lie is like learning that
you were adopted. It leaves a hole, and something must fill it.

While undermining the moral authority of the people in charge is a big
part of our project, we also must work on a replacement. It’s not enough
to get people wise to the hypocrisy of the New York Times, for example,
with regards to race. The Sarah Jeong fiasco does red pill a lot of
people, but that only matters if they have something else to embrace. In
the movie from which the term “red pill” originates, the characters had
an alternative vision of their future.

This is the lesson of the Great War. The collapse of the monarchical
system left a giant void in Europe. That system had been discredited,
but there was no replacement for the people to embrace. Liberal
democracy had yet to evolve the secular morality to justify it, so into
the void flowed Marxism and Fascism. The twentieth century was the fight
between liberal democracy, fascism and communism, with the result being
the neo-liberal order we have today.

[The posts on
antisemitism](http://www.unz.com/runz/american-pravda-anti-semitism-a-century-ago/)
will be of some interest. Ron is Jewish, so he comes to the subject from
a different angle than the anti-Semites, but he is refreshingly frank
about the material. It’s good reminder that Jews are not the monolith JQ
people need to believe. There are a lot of alt-Jews out there. It’s not
a majority or even close to one, but it is a substantial minority. Their
fight within the Jewish community over Jewish identity is a mirror of
what is happening within the Occident.

It’s a good reminder that even if you embrace the fact that human
diversity requires separation, it does not mean hostility. In fact,
diversity requires cooperation for peaceful separation to work. Even
though one group may have different interests and a radically different
sense of identity than another, they can still cooperate with one
another where their interests align. For the JQ people who think they
have taken the ultimate red-pill, this understanding about cooperation
and diversity is the ultimate red-pill.

I’m fond of pointing out that much of what defines the modern age is
that everyone forgot the timeless lessons of the human condition and now
we must rediscover them. This great awakening we see on our side of the
great divide is, in many respects, a rediscovery of the past. So much
has been hidden from view to prop up the current regime, it’s shocking
to most people. Like that kid who learns his parents had lied to him and
he was adopted, what matters next is what we do with this new knowledge.

 
