---
title: "The Irrational Mind"
date: "2018-07-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14590"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14590"
---

Smart people tend to think smart people are immune from irrational
beliefs. The smart scale has belief at one end and rationality at the
other. The conceit of smart people is that they populate the rational
end, while dumb people are at the other end. This leads to hubris. Smart
people often fail to examine their own beliefs, assuming their every
utterance is the model of rationality. It also leads to blindly going
along with the crackpot ideas popularized by [pseudo-intellectual
posers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malcolm_Gladwell).

The fact is, that smart scale is fiction. Smart people are just as prone
to nutty ideas as anyone else. Belief as a stand-alone cognitive trait
is largely independent of our ability to work the puzzles of life.
History is full of examples. Francis Bacon dabbled in the occult and
alchemy. Ben Franklin was a Rosicrucian. J.B.S. Haldane was the father
of population genetics and a resolute communist, then a socialist and at
one point a fan of eastern mysticism.

Another consequence of thinking belief and rationality are mutually
exclusive is the mistake of assuming a rational motive to crazy actions.
For example, [Steve Sailer thinks people like Paige
Harden](http://www.unz.com/isteve/nyt-beware-members-of-the-human-biodiversity-movement-enthusiastically-tweet-and-blog/)
are running a complex ruse when they go out in public and howl from the
progressive catechism. After all, Harden is a smart person who spends
all day working on tough problems related to human genetic diversity.
Sailer jumps to the conclusion that she must be doing this to safeguard
[her research](https://labs.la.utexas.edu/harden/).

That is comforting to a smart guy like Sailer as it appeals to his
preference for a wheels-within-wheels explanation of the world. The
truth is though, smart people are just as prone to group think and crazy
talk as everyone else. Read [Mx. Harden’s social media
feed](https://twitter.com/kph3k/status/858802991100551168?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E858802991100551168&ref_url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.unz.com%2Fisteve%2Fpaige-hardens-upcoming-book-the-genetic-lottery%2F)
and you come away with the sense that she is every bit as nutty as the
hormonal feminists from the womyn’s studies department. She believes
these things because these are the things her social class now believes.

That is the age-old error regarding the left. The default assumption is
that they are acting as rational players. If they are rational, yet
arriving at insane ideas like communism, egalitarianism, and
multiculturalism, they must have the wrong facts or a mistake in their
reasoning. After all, they are smart people and smart people always seek
the factually correct answer. Therefore, the only explanation for their
mistake is they lack the facts or have a flaw in their logic.

The bourgeois Marxists of a century ago are now bourgeois anti-whites
today. Read old books from a century ago and it is remarkable to see how
many smart people bought into fascism, socialism, and communism. The New
Deal intellectuals were all fans of European fascism, and many were
communists. The British ruling class was saturated with various forms of
socialism. Today, you cannot be a Cloud Person without embracing
anti-white hatred. It is what good people do.

Of course, most of the bourgeois socialists of a century ago were
serious about their radicalism right up until it required sacrifice. It
is the old gag about the pig and the chicken discussing breakfast. The
pig is committed, while the chicken is merely involved. You see that
with the modern anti-whites. You can be sure that Mx. Harden makes sure
to avoid the spicier parts of Austin like Montopolis, which is just
seven percent white. She appreciates her diversity from a great
distance.

Just as pointing out the outlandish contradictions between how bourgeois
socialists lived and what they advocated had no effect on them, pointing
out Mx. Harden’s hypocrisy is a pointless exercise as well. In fact, she
will hate you all the more for having tried to force her to focus on
herself. The whole point of being an anti-white is to hide from her own
whiteness. Her belonging to the anti-white anointed is all about
self-abnegation. She hates white people because she hates herself.

Modernity is based on the false assumption that man is rational. That
people wish to be satisfied with their material wants and at peace with
their neighbors. The truth is people are motivated by a quest for grace.
Humans want to believe the universe cares for them, and it has a purpose
for their lives. Therefore, they seek out some avenue to reach that
state of grace, to give purpose to their lives. Ask Paige Harden about
her research, and you will get some statement about [social
justice](https://twitter.com/kph3k/status/1019970364292632576?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1019970364292632576&ref_url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.unz.com%2Fisteve%2F).

That is the key to understanding the current crisis. Our ruling elites
believe they are on the side of history, so the results of their actions
must be the will of the heavens. They do not measure the results
empirically or think through the consequences. When they see white
people complaining about anti-white rhetoric, the anti-whites see this
as proof of their righteousness. Marxist said the recalcitrant working
classes were suffering from false consciousness. Today’s anti-whites
accuse recalcitrant whites of white privilege.
