---
title: "This Way Be Monsters"
date: "2018-02-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13012"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13012"
---

An analogy I am fond of using to describe my efforts is of a ferryman,
taking people over a river. One side is the political, social and moral
arguments based on the blank slate and egalitariansim. On the other side
are the arguments based in biological realism. When people finally grow
dissatisfied with the failure of the old arguments, the ferryman takes
them over the river to the other side. What they do once across the
river is their business. I just take them over the river.

Now, this way of stating things wildly overstates my role and influence,
but it is useful in describing the whole body of writers, bloggers,
podcasters and so forth, making the sorts of arguments I make here. The
analogy serves another purpose. It helps frame the intellectual conflict
in our current age. The people on our side know all the arguments on the
other side. We were there once. The people on the other side, however,
are wholly ignorant of what is happening over here.

This came to mind when perusing National Review the other day. I was
sure they would have some posts slobbering over the Black Panther movie.
No group is as enthusiastic for anti-racism as the modern conservative.
They turn into a puddle of emotional goo whenever they see an even a
mildly successful black person. It is why CPAC was just a long line of
white people taking selfies with the four black people at the event.
Instead, I found [this review from Jim
Geraghty](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/0AC2/wakanda-utopia-impossible-blame-human-nature/)
with a very promising headline.

It was the subhead that got my attention, because the last thing I would
expect to see at National Review is the mention of human nature. The
place is stuffed to the brim with foaming at the mouth blank slaters.
Normally, I would skip a Jim Geraghty post, because he is not
interesting. Of course, his movie review was his normal banal
nothingness. Even by the standards of movie reviews it is bland. What
was striking though is there is no mention of human nature.

I re-read the thing a few times thinking I may have skipped over a line
about race realism or even the reality of Africa. Nope. The closest he
gets is a throw away line at the end about governance being about
trade-offs. Unless you were in a coma for the month leading up to the
release of Black Panther, you had to know the movie was explicitly about
race. Somehow, Geraghty missed that and never mentions race once in his
review of a film about race.

Thinking about this, it occurred to me that the so-called conservatives
have turned a strange corner. Back in the olden thymes, the paleocons
were sure that their wussy compatriots knew the score but were just too
frightened of Lefty to be honest about human nature, especially with
regards to race. Maybe it was wishful thinking but listen to some of the
old guys, many of whom worked for outfits like National Review, and they
used to talk about these things with the wuss-right types.

Maybe it is isolation, maybe it is a platonic form of assortative
mating, but the remaining husk of Buckley Conservatism is stocked with
people lacking the cognitive toolkit to understand the human condition.
It is no longer about avoiding taboo subjects with these guys. They are
now true believers in the blank slate, so whole swaths of knowledge are
no longer available to them. They are forced to conjure solutions from a
limited inventory of information about the human condition.

I mentioned this in one of the podcasts, but it is worth repeating.
Sometime ago, I was chatting with a woman and the topic of Somalia came
up. I mentioned that Somalis have some of the lowest IQ’s measured. Her
question was “Is it the lack of schools or is it how they are taught in
their schools?” In other words, nature was no longer in her set of
possible answers. Like so many, she had fallen so far down the rabbit
hole of nurture, it is all she knew. It is all there is.

This also helps explain why so-called conservatives are baffled by the
sudden collapse of their movement. They moan and groan about Trump,
using the language of the Left, which sounds rather silly to the rest of
us. They cannot see that. They do not know what is on the other side of
the river, the side we are on, because they do not know there is another
side to the river. For them, biology is the edge of a vast ocean,
because they believe there is nothing on the other side, not even
monsters.
