---
title: "Black Friday"
date: "2018-11-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15620"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15620"
---

Steve Sailer likes to draw comparisons between this age and what
happened when the 1960’s counter-culture turned toxic in the 1970’s. The
Civil Rights Movement had curdled into militant black power and the
hippy movement had soured into roving gangs of militants like the
Weather Underground. It is not a bad comparison, because then as now,
the cause of the turmoil was incoherent radicalism. What did the Black
Panthers want, other than access to white women? What was the point of
the BLM violence?

A key difference between then and now is the issue of race. In the
1960’s, America was 85% white and whites just assumed blacks were a poor
fit for modern society. Today, America is 60% white, and everyone has
spent their lives indoctrinated in a cult that worships blacks. Fifty
years ago, when blacks turned violent, everyone sort of expected it, so
no one was really surprised. Today, black violence is a mystery to the
beautiful people, and they insist everyone else pretends that it is a
mystery or caused by whites.

That is what makes the Ferguson Effect an interesting topic, even after
the consequences are slowly starting to fade. Prior to the Black Lives
Matter stuff and the liberal tub thumping over events like Travon
Martin, crime in general, and black crime in particular, had faded from
the public’s consciousness. Then suddenly, the blacks were angry and
murder rates in certain cities began to shoot up again. In 2011
Baltimore had 211 murders. In 2015, the year of Freddy Gray, the city
recorded 342 homicides.

White liberals, broadly speaking, have argued the Ferguson Effect is the
result of black rage in response to police brutality and racism. The
reason blacks in Baltimore, for example, started murdering one another
at a record clip, was over anger at the police department’s rough
justice in the ghetto. It is an argument that assumes blacks have no
agency of their own and are simply controlled by the behavior of whites.
This is a gratuitous assertion by people with an anti-white agenda, but
it is the prevailing opinion.

Blacks, on the other hand, have never accepted this line of argument.
Instead, they prefer to dismiss the whole thing as a baffling anomaly.
The prevailing argument from black activists is that there is no such
this as the Ferguson Effect. [This
piece](https://www.citylab.com/equity/2016/03/study-there-has-been-no-ferguson-effect-in-baltimore/473781/)
in City Lab, the urban subsidiary of The Atlantic, is a good example. It
has become an article of faith among blacks that the Ferguson Effect is
just another effort to explain away the real causes of black crime.
Namely, to hide the institutional racism in modern America.

There is, of course, something to it. Blacks seem to get that the
underlying assumption of the Ferguson Effect is that left to their own
devices, black society would quickly devolve into something pre-modern
and violent. Without the constraints of white society, blacks are simply
unable to achieve anything above the neolithic. If whites come to accept
this again, then all the concessions and benefits that came out of the
Civil Rights Movement no longer make any sense. The whole project
unravels in the face of biological reality.

Reality is that thing that does not go away when you stop believing in
it. Race relations in America, with regards to blacks, have always been
about a series of gates. Blacks who can behave themselves pass through
the gate from the ghetto to the suburbs. Blacks with something on the
ball can enter the managerial class, assuming they are willing to accept
their symbolic role in the system. The violent and stupid, in contrast,
cannot pass through those gates, so they are penned up in urban
reservations guarded by the police.

Whites in America have come to terms with this by never thinking about
it. Liberal whites invest their time in fantasies like structural racism
and white privilege, while normal whites just ignore it. Blacks, on the
other hand, are keenly aware of this reality. For those able to pass
through those gates, there is a need to obscure this reality, but also a
deep resentment for it. You will note that black anger at white America
comes from those able to pass through the gates, because they know the
underlying assumptions are true.

This is why middle-class black anger at white America is visceral and
incoherent. You see it at the end of that posted article, when the
writer celebrates pointless protest. “If the word “Ferguson” was
permanently and exclusively attached back to its original meaning, we
might find evidence of an “effect” when it comes to a number of recent,
inspiring events: the bringing down of Confederate monuments, the
ousting of Chicago’s police chief, or the recent Chicago protests that
forced Donald Trump to cancel a rally.”

The truth is, black crime rates went up in areas where Black Lives
Matter was active, because the white cops were simply unwilling to do
the job that was necessary to control the ghettos. Many simply moved to
other jobs, while the supply of new recruits dried up, leaving these
police departments woefully undermanned. On the other hand, the blacks
who have made it through the gates are reminded of the reality of their
situation. They know that [in order to avoid
this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WufKsOhkTL8), they must [accept
thi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P7kMaapYJTw)s. That is the source
of their anger.
