---
title: "Voluntary Suicide"
date: "2018-11-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15644"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15644"
---

In debates about monetary policy, there is an old saying about the
fundamental flaw in hard money arguments. “If your government is so
corrupt you need a gold standard to keep it under control, your
government is corrupt enough to find a way around the gold standard.“ It
is an observation that is fundamentally true about the reality of ruling
classes, regardless of the political system. It also speaks to the way
liberal democracy warps the way the intellectual classes think about the
relationship between ruler and ruled.

In all forms of government prior to the Enlightenment, the defects of
the state were assigned to the people in charge of the state. In a
tyranny, problems in one of the provinces meant the tyrant replaced the
local governor. In a monarchy, bad policy coming from the crown meant
the king was the problem. If he were enough of a problem, he would have
a hunting accident and there would be a new king. In all forms of
personal rule, the assumption is the problems arise from the person
doing the ruling, not the system.

Since the Enlightenment, in contrast, whenever problems in governance
are discussed, it is assumed that the system is the issue and not the
people. This is true within various forms of socialism or liberal
democracy. The one obvious exception is Chinese communism, where
changing the people is still the rule. That is mostly because China was
always Chinese first, communist second. Otherwise, the debate about
government is about systems rather than the sorts of people who should
rule.

All forms of communism start with the assumption that property
arrangements, and relationships between property holders, are the basis
of human society. This was certainly true of feudalism, but communists
picked up where Rousseau left off and assumed property is the fork in
the road of human societies. The communist solution is to get rid of
property. This allows the scientific socialist to create new social
arrangements that are beneficial to all of society. It is a property
solution to the human condition.

Similarly, libertarians start from the assumption that property is the
basis of human relations and human society. Contrary to the communist,
libertarians see the violation of property rights as the source of human
misery. Their solution is to sanctify private property, by
re-establishing it as the basis of human relations. That is the thing
about libertarianism. When you strip away the window dressing, it is
simply a system of property relations. Like communism, it is a property
solution to the human condition.

Democratic systems are an effort to address the natural inequality of
society by harnessing the will of the majority in the political system.
The notion of “one man, one vote” acknowledges that all men may not be
equal in wealth and status, but they have an equal stake in society, so
they get an equal vote. The flaw is that what is good for the individual
is often bad for society. If everyone votes their interests, or what
they think of as their interests, you may end up [invading
Sicily](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sicilian_Expedition) and losing
the Peloponnesian War.

Even if democracy does not result in a catastrophic failure, as with the
Greeks, the system we call liberal democracy produces unfavorable
results. A long-observed problem with democracy is something called the
Condorcet paradox, where the results swing between two fixed
extremes. We see this in American democracy. We get one party in charge
for a few elections, then for some reason, the results of the next
election go the other way. The last two elections are pretty good
examples of cyclical results.

That’s the motivation behind schemes like [quadratic
voting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadratic_voting), which seek to
tie economic interest to the weight of the vote. The very short version
is that everyone gets so much vote capital to spend on the issues they
think are important. The greater the interest in an issue, the more
voting stock you invest in it. Presumably this means people with no
interest in some topic will not vote on that topic. It is an interesting
theory that is not based in reality and could never work in the real
world. It is a fun exercise for the bored.

Again, what you see here, and quadratic voting is a good example, is an
effort to arrive at a system solution to the human condition. We know
some people are not very smart and are not going to make rational
choices when voting. We know there are evil people who will exploit dumb
people. Democracy allows for no way to address this, as the starting
assumption is all votes are equal, because everyone has the same stake
in the outcome of elections. Quadratic voting is a clever attempt at
vote-stripping that will fool no one.

The central defect of all political and economic systems since the
Enlightenment is they assume there is a rational system that can address
the human condition. Whether it was socialists trying to solve the
problems that arise from material inequality or the humanists, who seek
to address the biological reality of man, the assumption is there is a
system that once in place, people will *voluntarily* support, thus
making authority unnecessary. At the heart of all western political
philosophy is the dream of voluntarism.

The funny thing is there is never much speculation into why it is or how
it is that men voluntarily cooperate. The fascists, to their credit,
looked at the brotherhood of trench socialism, as a model for
voluntarism. In times of crisis and great danger, men of all classes and
interests will join in the struggle. Marxists came to rely upon
perpetual revolution to maintain discipline, but that hardly qualifies
as a voluntarist solution to human cooperation. It is an excuse for
state terror.

French conservatives, writing in the later years of the Revolution,
probably came the closest to understanding this problem. Joseph de
Maistre looked at society as an organic thing, where the parts were
defined by their relationship with one another. Individually, they could
not exist, because their form and purpose were defined entirely within
the state and in relation to the other parts of society. The members of
society voluntarily participated in their role, because it is what
defined them as human beings.

The fact that the old aristocratic order, that conservatives came to
represent, collapsed in the face of Enlightenment radicalism, suggests
it either had different defects or never addressed the problem of human
cooperation. The long experiment that followed the French Revolution,
all the murder and mayhem that defined it, has arrived at the same point
as the old aristocratic order. The question is what will come along to
push over the liberal democratic order, promising to solve the problem
of human cooperation.

Perhaps it is just voluntary, cooperative suicide.
