---
title: "Gefälschte Nachrichten"
date: "2018-12-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15894"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15894"
---

Last week, the German publication Der Spiegel was forced to fire its
star performer, when it was revealed that he was a fabulist. Claas
Relotius had written for the publication for close to a decade. He had
been handed several awards by other media organs. His exposure as a
serial fabricator was the result of [his piece on the small town
of Fergus Falls
Minnesota](https://magazin.spiegel.de/SP/2017/13/150231550/index.html),
after the 2016 election. The thrust of his story was that rural America
voted for Trump, because it is full of xenophobic weirdos and economic
losers.

His mistake was to pick on a small town in the age of the internet. The
yokels were able to look up the article and compare his version of
reality with their own. More important, they could go to a popular
platform and [post their
reactions](https://medium.com/@micheleanderson/der-spiegel-journalist-messed-with-the-wrong-small-town-d92f3e0e01a7)
to his article, so the world could then compare his work to
reality. Michele Anderson and Jake Krohn, who live in Fergus Falls,
posted their analysis of the article on Medium. Eventually, it took over
a year, Der Spiegel was [forced to address the
issue](http://www.spiegel.de/international/zeitgeist/the-relotius-scandal-reaches-fergus-falls-in-america-a-1244944.html)
publicly.

In Germany, this is quite a scandal in media circles, because Der
Spiegel is like their version of New York Times. That is, it positions
itself as the official arbiter of truth, with regards to public
morality. They not only decide what is true, they decide which truths
can be said. Worse yet for them, they have been bragging about their
fact checking for a long time. As a result of this tent pole toppling
over, the [German media is
scrambling](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2018/dec/21/der-spiegel-to-run-23-page-special-on-reporter-who-faked-stories-claas-relotius)
to convince everyone that it is an isolated incident, not a system
failure.

The amusing bit is the German media is rushing around looking puzzled,
as to how the vaunted fact checking system could have failed. After all,
the best people are in control of the media. How could the best people
have made such basic errors? As is the case in America, whenever these
things happen, the media handwringing is just a dodge. What really
concerns them is how easy it was for two bumpkins from dirt country to
sluice out the facts from the fiction in this article.

That is always the thing with these scandals. The media big shots always
come off as if they have been insulted about their shenanigans being
revealed. In this case, the other major media outfits are rallying to
defend Der Spiegel. In the dreaded private sector, competitors are
always quick to take advantage of the mistakes of a competitor. In the
mainstream media, the opposite is always true. They circle the wagons
and begin lecturing the hoi polloi about the dangers of questioning the
media.

That is the real cause of these scandals. For a long time, the mass
media in the West has been a monoculture. You cannot have a career in
the media if you do not hold all the right opinions. To call the media
an echo chamber for the left is to understate the problem. The better
analogy is a school of fish. Everyone just reacts to those around him,
giving the effect of the school having agency. What looks like collusion
is just the result of a uniformity of mind, experience, and social
class.

That is why no one at Der Spiegel, or anywhere else in the German media,
noticed the fraudulence of Claas Relotius. He was writing the things his
coevals and superiors said at luncheons, cocktail parties and in the
office. His story about slack-jawed yokels in the American heartland
ticked all the boxes popular with the left-wing cultural outlook. He was
not sent there to report on the place. He was sent there to confirm what
his employers already knew about Middle American and Trump voters.

This is why Western media is something worse than propaganda. The person
hired by the state or hired by the corporate marketing department has
self-awareness. They know their job is to polish the apple of their
superiors. The tricks they employ to do that are done with knowledge and
forethought. The guy telling the public that his employer, the pesticide
company, is deeply concerned about the environment does so knowing full
well that no one believes him, including his family.

The media is a different thing. They really believe their own nonsense.
They think they are part of a special class of humans, a priestly class
that not only reports facts to the public, but provides moral
instruction. The mass media is so intoxicated by their own
self-righteousness, they lack the ability to question their own actions.
When Claas Relotius came back from the bush, reporting exactly what his
bosses knew was the case, they had no reason to question it. It was too
good to check.
