---
title: "The Worst People"
date: "2018-04-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13623"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13623"
---

If you read Donald Kagan’s account of [The Peloponnesian
War](https://www.amazon.com/Peloponnesian-War-Donald-Kagan/dp/0142004375),
the politicians of Athenian democracy come in for some rough treatment
for their dishonestly, stupidity and fecklessness. Kagan is especially
tough on [Alcibiades](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alcibiades), who he
mostly blames for the disastrous [Sicilian
Expedition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sicilian_Expedition). Whether
that is fair or not is debatable, but Kagan’s description of Alcibiades
as a duplicitous and egotistical politician, with a penchant for
snapping penises off of statuary, strikes a chord with anyone who
follows politics today.

Look around Washington, and with few exceptions, the place is full of
the worst sorts of people. It is not just dishonesty, which is a
permanent feature of politics, regardless of the system. That is a
self-correcting feature. The main issue in our politics is that our
system attracts the worst people. It is impossible to find an elected
official who has ever done honest work. Most are phenomenally stupid,
outside their reptilian ability to fool voters and cozy up to the
billionaires that bankroll them.

That comes through clearly in <a
href="http://www.miamiherald.com/news/local/community/miami-dade/miami-beach/article209006879.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this story from Miami about Kristen Rosen
Gonzalez</a>, who no doubt has a bright future in politics.

*As the “Me Too” movement gained steam across the nation last fall,
Miami Beach City Commissioner Kristen Rosen Gonzalez went public with
her own harrowing tale: that a political ally, Rafael Velasquez, had
pulled out his penis and tried to force her to touch it while the two
sat alone in a car.*

*But according to a newly released memo from the Miami-Dade State
Attorney’s Office, prosecutors have declined to charge Velasquez, saying
there was not enough evidence to prove a crime took place.*

*If anything, investigators found evidence that conflicted with the
commissioner’s account — although they also declined to pursue
Velasquez’s counter-claim that the commissioner made the whole thing up
and filed a false police report in order to promote her congressional
campaign.*

*“This commissioner used these false allegations for political purposes,
and the power of her office, to basically destroy my name and reputation
in our community,” said Velasquez, who at the time was locked in a close
race for the Miami Beach commission. “The only taxpayer-funded seat this
criminal commissioner should occupy is a bench in state prison.”*

*Prosecutors said they informed Rosen Gonzalez and her attorney last
month “that no criminal charges could be filed in this matter” because
they “would not be able to meet \[the\] burden of proof to establish a
crime had occurred beyond and to the exclusion of every reasonable
doubt.” But in a statement to the Herald, Rosen Gonzalez claimed she was
the one who told prosecutors she did not want the case to go on.*

It is not hard to see what happened here. The woman saw her opportunity
to knock off a political opponent and took it. That may not strike you
as a big deal, but this is why Washington is the land of a thousand
sociopaths. The farm system that develops elected officials selects for
them. In anything resembling an orderly system, Kristen Rosen Gonzalez
would never get a purchase, she would be weeded out at the initial point
of entry. Instead, you can bet that the big shots in Tallahassee are
looking at her as a star.

It is tempting to say that this is just the natural result of democracy.
There is a lot of truth there, as this was the result of Athenian
democracy, as well. The standard critique of democracy is that it brings
together a bunch of not so smart and wise people, expecting them to be
collectively what they are not individually. Dumb people do not become
smart when their numbers increase. Therefore, the antidote to the
defects of democracy is limiting the franchise to the best people. That
is the argument for a representative republic.

The counter to this is the public is always choosing between two
terrible choices when they go to vote. It is not that they are choosing
poorly, so much as they can only choose poorly. At election time, you
get to select between two degenerate sociopaths, so the result is fixed.
It is hard to blame the public for bad choices, given what we see on
display in our elections. The reason Trump is in the White House,
despite his long list of liabilities, is he was the most honest guy on
stage. Think about that for a second.

Another problem with the standard brief against democracy is the Romans
limited public life to the credentialed elite, but they eventually
succumbed to the same temptations we see today. Our own experience with
republican government in America is an obvious another example. Those
sensible elites steadily expanded the franchise, until everyone had the
vote. Clearly, limiting the vote to the best men of society is not the
solution, at least not in the long run. Eventually, it becomes the rule
by the worst.

The solution, if there is one, is to figure out how to put a set of
requirements on people entering public life that are easy to defend,
even in times of extreme duress or extreme leisure. The Romans came
pretty close during the Republic. The requirements placed on a public
man worked as a sorting mechanism. It was only when they stopped abiding
by these rules that things started to go sideways in a hurry. The puzzle
is how to devise a set of barriers to entry that are very hard to
violate, even in times of crisis.

It is easy to produce rules that would “solve” many of the problems we
face today but implementing them and enforcing them is never mentioned.
Assuming the West is not headed for a dark age, ushered in by collapsing
demographics, the people of the future will sift through the wreckage
and tease out lessons from this failed experiment with mass democracy.
The next phase of moral philosophy is applying what is emerging from the
cognitive sciences to weed out the sociopaths before they get on the
ballot.
