---
title: "Denmark Diary I"
date: "2018-09-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15034"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15034"
---

I have always thought you can tell a lot about a people by their
airport. I have been in a lot of airports and while they all of them
follow a similar design, form follows function, no two are the same. For
example, the Reykjavik airport reflects the utilitarian sensibilities of
the people, but it also has the funky charm of a people who spend a lot
of time in the winter darkness. That is what probably explains the
weirdness of Iceland. They are way out there where the winter nights are
long, and the people have lots of time kill. The results follow.

Copenhagen airport is the most trusting place on earth, I think. I saw
little in the way of security and the staff is extremely nice. For
example, I did not have to go through customs despite coming through
Iceland, which never checked my passport either. I did get checked at
BWI before getting on the plane, but the basics of security say you
first eliminate single points of failure. It appears the Danes trust
their brothers in Iceland who in turn still trust the world is a sane
place. There is something appealing about it…

My first day in Copenhagen was uneventful. I do not speak Denmarkian, as
our former president would say, but I sense the language is easier to
acquire than Icelandic, which is close to impossible, unless you have
some foundation in Old English or Norwegian. It does not matter as
English seems as common as the native tongue. In fact, the buses have
advertisements in English on the sides of them. Even commercial
companies use English on their business signage. English is the *lingua
franca* now.

At the airport, I bumped into an old acquaintance. Another reminder that
it is not a small world, it is a claustrophobic one. A half dozen years
ago we worked a job together. At the time, I was working with a client,
and I noticed something unusual about their exchange accounts. By
unusual I mean they did not add up. It turned out that the CFO was
running a scam on the owners using the foreign exchange accounts. It was
the old game of stealing a penny from a million different places a
thousand times a year on a regular basis.

It was enough money involved that they called in guy who did corporate
security. He had worked for a government for a dozen years and figured
out that companies would pay much better for the sort of things he
enjoyed doing. With corporate fraud, the companies often prefer to
settle things privately, rather than bring in the government. This guy’s
service was to put together the information so the other party in the
situation was willing to make a deal. That meant he spent his days
spying on the servants of rich people.

We hit it off while working together, mostly due to our shared realism
about the modern age. It has been a year since we spoke, so it was good
to see a familiar face and to have a drinking companion. There really is
nothing better, in my opinion, than drinking beer and talking shop. It
is like a poetry slam for people with a purpose in this world. My advice
to those thinking they can steal from their corporate masters is to stay
off social media and never discuss your dealings in public places. The
walls have ears…

When you live in Lagos, you get used to the urban landscape. No matter
how hard you try to keep your mind right, your mind becomes habituated
to the day to day. For example, I am jotting this down at midnight and
it is stone silent here in Copenhagen. In Lagos, it is never quiet. On a
Friday night the sound of sirens is the lullaby of the just. When I was
in Newark over the summer, the people I was with struggled with the
cacophony of the ghetto. They were all suburbanites, so they were not
used to vibrancy of the ghetto.

That does not mean Copenhagen is not without its vibrancy. Most of their
vibrant are North Africans, with some blacks. I had a great cheeseburger
from a place called Bash that was run by Moroccans. The cook was Danish,
so maybe it does not count, but the staff was all Moroccan. One of the
bartenders we experienced was from Bangladesh. He was glib in both
English and Danish and said he had married a Danish woman, which is why
he lived in Denmark. Everywhere, the door to vibrancy is opened by
women…

Tomorrow, I meet the secret handshake society. I have no idea what to
expect. Frankly, I doubt I will meet any of them. It is a mysterious
lot. Of course, this is a necessity of nationalists everywhere. The
hotel where I am staying is hosting a Muslim wedding tomorrow, but
people who think Denmark should be a country for Danes has to meet under
a bridge in the middle of nowhere, lest they be accused of being
un-Danish. I do not speak the language, but I am sure the rulers here
have a phrase for “it’s not who we are.”
