---
title: "Slavery As A Service"
date: "2018-10-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15422"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15422"
---

Unsurprisingly, the first step in the Progressive pogrom against normal
people after the Pittsburgh shooting was an effort to de-platform Gab.
The ruling class has a deep hatred of the site for several reasons. One
being, it puts the lie to the claim that the tech industry is an open
market. The other is it puts the lie to the fact that Americans have
constitutional rights. Anything that is seen as a challenge to
Progressive rule is marked for death and the people in charge are not
about to allow a tragedy to go to waste.

The bodies were not even cold, and the usual suspects were organized and
sent out on social media, and then Progressive media, to denounce Gab as
some sort of organized assault “on our democracy.” The only thing
missing from the hysteria was the claim that Gab is a Russian agent.
Everyone was supposed to drop what they were doing for five minutes of
hate against Gab, a tiny web site with about half a million users.
Facebook has billions of users, Google controls the internet. Yet, Gab
is a threat to civilization.

Not soon after the signal from Prog was given, the heads of the tech
oligopoly got together to throw Gab off the internet. First their
hosting service, a company called Joyent, gave them 48 hours to find a
new hosting service. The company is owned by Samsung, and it is run by a
loathsome bigot named Scott Hammond. The hope was that Gab would not be
able to find a replacement over the weekend and the site would go dark.
Word was sent out to the media to prepare a celebration of the event so
Hammond could be honored.

Gab, ever resourceful, found another hosting company and was able to
start making the transition, despite Joyent deliberately trying to
sabotage their efforts. That is when the next step in the operation was
launched. GoDaddy, the registrar Gab used to buy the domain name,
threatened to steal the domain name from them. This is the trick GoDaddy
used in the past, stealing domain names from owners, who hold opinions
contrary to the official orthodoxy. Gab was able to avoid this and is in
the process of moving to new digs.

Now, when you start looking at these companies, the thing that should
ring out is they are pretty much the standard villain in Hollywood
movies. They are large, soulless corporations run by bland automatons
like Scott Hammond. They are men hired because they will just follow
orders. When you look at a guy like Scott Hammond, you see [the face of
someone who never asks too many
questions](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/sites/lcom/files/joomla/images/stories/714/Scott_Hammond.jpg).
He is the guy who begs for his life at the end of the Hollywood action
movie, but the good guy shoots him anyway.

The question that normal people ask is how this is possible. After all,
these companies sign contracts and in theory, we still have courts where
contracts can be enforced by impartial judges. While that is laughable
fiction now, the reality is these companies are not bound by standard
business agreements. They have been allowed to carve out new laws for
themselves, forcing their vendors and customers to sign off on what is
called an adhesion contract. This gives the tech giants absolute power
over everyone else.

An adhesion contract or “standard form contract” is a contract drafted
by one party and signed by another party. The second party typically
does not have the power to negotiate or modify the terms of the
contract. Adhesion contracts are commonly used for things like insurance
or rental contracts. When you rent a car or purchase car insurance, you
just sign the contract, because you must rent the car or get insured.
Every technology service provider is now basing their relationships on
these types of contracts.

It used to be that the courts scrutinized these types of arrangements,
so the contract had to adhere to some basic principles. The courts would
often use the “doctrine of reasonable expectations” to void all or part
of these contracts, when there was lack of notice, unequal bargaining
power, or blatant and substantive unfairness. The reason for this should
be obvious. When a powerful company has the right to dictate the terms
of the contract to their customers, they have all the power in the
contractual relationship.

In western jurisprudence, a valid contract is one in which both parties
freely engage and have equal opportunities to negotiate. When one party
imposes the conditions on the other, that is not a contract. That is
slavery. In a world where a handful of people control the public space,
these types of contracts give them arbitrary power over public
discourse. If they become vexed with what you say, they can claim you
have violated their terms of service and remove you from the internet.
Again, the terms are dictated, not negotiated.

A recent, less emotional, example is what happened with Stefan Molyneux,
the alt-lite YouTube personality. He has built up a large following on
YouTube for his quirky brand of edgy commentary. He said the wrong thing
and was informed by YouTube that [his business would be
shuttered](https://twitter.com/stefanmolyneux/status/1029745238355652613?lang=en)
unless he conformed to their terms of service. His only recourse, like a
slave being whipped by the master, was to beg for mercy. After getting a
reprieve, he will have to live knowing who holds the whip and who is the
slave.

This is not something limited to social media. Microsoft has imposed
similar terms of service on users of Office and Skype. In theory, it
means they can stop your company from using these products if they find
out the owner gave money to the wrong political candidate or has the
wrong opinions. All the content providers like Hulu, Amazon and Netflix
have implemented the same one-way contracts. While they have not banned
people from using their services yet, it is something they now have the
power to do.

This is why the “cloud” is so popular with the Cloud People. Turn on the
television and you are treated to ads telling you how the cloud will
solve all the problems of your life. What it is, of course, is an
inducement to walk into the cage. Once inside, the door slams shut, and
you are now just another bit of property on the plantation. In the near
future, [Brendan
Eich](https://stream.org/brendan-eich-fired-from-mozilla-for-defending-marriage-has-a-brave-new-web-browser/)
will not just lose his job. He will be found to have violated the terms
of service for his refrigerator, car and checking account. Internal
banishment becomes real.

Slavery tends to end in one of two ways. The slave-based society is
conquered, or the slaves rise and slaughter their slave masters. It is
too much to hope for the political class to ban these leonine contracts
used by global tech to enslave the rest of us, but that would be the
peaceful resolution. The courts could also return to the habit of
scrutinizing these agreements. Given the behavior of the political
class, this seems unlikely. Judging by the physiognomy of Scott Hammond,
the alternative seems certain.
