---
title: "Anarcho-Mendacity"
date: "2018-02-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12956"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12956"
---

It used to be that conservatives held one piece of high ground in the
long running intellectual civil war in the West. For all their faults,
they maintained that the ruling elite of any society had a duty to
safeguard the interests of the people. That was the check on social
experimentation and overturning of traditional institutions. The
interests of the people demanded prudence and a deference to the
people’s traditional ways of living, in order to guard their interests.

Looking back at the intellectual battles in the West, the one thing the
sides were forced to agree upon was that the duty of the state, the
ruling class and social reformers, was to safeguard the interest of the
people. After all, what would be the point of establishing a
dictatorship of the proletariat, if it immiserated the proletariat? It
was not just a material argument either. Much the critique of communism
from conservatives was on cultural and moral grounds.

That is probably why libertarianism was always on the sidelines, more of
a commentary than a serious political philosophy.  It was a set of
running commentaries on the great works of political economy produced by
socialists, communists and Marxists. [Frédéric
Bastiat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fr%C3%A9d%C3%A9ric_Bastiat) does
not make a lot of sense in isolation. His significance is only in
contrast to 19th century industrial socialism and the reaction to it
from the Right. Libertarianism is the peanut gallery of the
Enlightenment.

It is why, in the fullness of time, the story of the collapse of
mainstream conservatism will include a chapter on the error of
[fusionism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fusionism). By grafting onto
the Right, libertarian arguments about economics and individual liberty,
the Right invited a cancer that gnawed away at its legitimate claims to
proper elitism and traditionalism. In other words, they forfeited the
one piece of high ground they held. You see this in the debates over
immigration. The so-called conservatives no longer have the tools to
argue the issue.

[This piece at Reason
Magazine](https://reason.com/reasontv/2018/02/14/best-arguments-against-immigration)
is a good way of understanding the problem. Nick Gillespie is not a
serious person, but he is one of the leading voices of American
libertarianism. He is embraced by the so-called conservatives a fellow
traveler, even if they have minor quibbles. His response to the
immigration debate is a dog’s breakfast of mendacity and incoherence.
The most charitable way to view his article is that he has never
bothered to examine the issue, so he is pulling this out of his ear.

Of course, this is mostly true. Libertarians have not spent a lot of
time thinking about immigration and that is because they long ago
embraced the materialist view of humanity that animated left-wing
ideologies since Marx. From the perspective of modern libertarians,
people are just interchangeable meat sticks with no intrinsic value. The
measure of a man is his economic utility. A factory worker from
Bangladesh is no more or less useful than one from Bangor Maine.
[Whittaker Chambers was right about
them](https://www.nationalreview.com/2005/01/big-sister-watching-you-whittaker-chambers/).

It is when they are forced to address an issue like immigration that
something else is revealed about libertarians. They are not honest. That
which contradicts the faith is denounced or discarded, Gillespie’s first
point is an example of this. It used to be an article of faith that the
laws of supply and demand apply to everything, including labor.
Therefore, the only reason business would want foreign labor is that it
is cheaper. The reason they like illegal foreign labor is that it is
even cheaper than legal foreign labor.

The innumeracy is one thing, but Gillespie is also conjuring a straw
man. Yes, wages are one element, but no one makes that the focus of
their brief against open borders. He also relies on two logical
fallacies that gets a college sophomore flunked out of class. “Virtually
all economists, regardless of ideology, agree that immigrants, both
legal and illegal, have little to no effect on overall wages” is not an
argument. It is a recitation of a spurious Progressive talking point
that has [shot down many
times](http://www.hup.harvard.edu/catalog.php?isbn=9780674049772).

The mendacity is on full display when Gillespie addresses the rule of
law. The very core of the libertarian critique of socialism is that it
does not abide by the orderly administration of the law. Socialism is an
ends justifies the means philosophy, so it cannot, by definition,
respect the law. It is why flouting the law can never be tolerated. If a
law is found to be unjust or improper, then there is an orderly way
correct the error, a lawful way to address the natural mistakes that
arise in any social organization.

Gillespie’s argument, with regards to illegal immigration is an embrace
of anarchy. In this case, he thinks the immigration system is
inefficient or incompetent, so that justifies the wholesale abrogation
of the law. No reasonable person would argue the immigration system is
logical or coherent. That is the reason for this reform effort that is
at the heart of the national populism. By cavalierly rejecting efforts
to reform the law, embracing a form of deliberate chaos, Gillespie
reveals libertarianism to be nothing more than anarchism.

This gets back to the original point. The legitimacy of any ruling class
lies in its execution of its duty to its people. A monarch loses his
crown, and maybe his head, when it becomes clear that he is serving a
narrow interest over the general good. The current managerial class is
losing its legitimacy as it becomes clear that it not longer sees itself
as having a duty to the people. A stable society is one that embraces a
bi-directional hierarchy of duties. There is no place for selfish,
materialistic creeds like libertarianism.

This is something the alt-right gets that no one bothers to notice. They
often talk about this duty that a people have to one another and their
posterity. It is something that the Founders understood, which is why
they wrote this in the preamble of the US Constitution. This is why so
many of the alt-right started out in libertarianism. They learned all
this stuff about the Founding and natural rights, then figured out that
modern libertarians really do not believe it. It was just a sales pitch
to move product. That is why we have an alt-right.
