---
title: "The Great Undoing"
date: "2018-07-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14434"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14434"
---

One reading of the 20th century is that it was the concluding chapter of
the great battle between aristocracy and liberal democracy that began
with the English Civil War. The Great War started when the
Austro-Hungarian Empire delivered a set of demands on Serbia, knowing it
would provoke a wider war in Europe. At the start of the war, three
major European empires governed most of Europe. By the end, all three
empires were gone, and the victors were the republics, who imposed their
political system on the losers.

American involvement in the Great War is usually characterized as the
great coming out event for the country. The hesitant Woodrow Wilson,
goaded into joining the fight by the bellicose Teddy Roosevelt, moved
the country from its traditional isolationist position into a fully
engaged world power. That fits the preferred narrative of our elites, as
it makes it sound like they rule the world reluctantly. The Europeans
could not manage their affairs, so noble America had to step in, defeat
the bad guys and impose order on the West.

Another part of America’s decision to enter the war was the deep hatred
Wilson and his advisers had for the European empires. Wilson thought the
Kaiser was deeply immoral, but he really hated the Austro-Hungarian
Empire. Wilson was influenced by [Giuseppe
Mazzini](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giuseppe_Mazzini), who was a
zealous nationalist and republican. He not only rejected the concept of
empire, but he also lived it as an Italian nationalist. Mazzini also
rejected materialism and class struggle, which had a natural appeal to
the moralizing idealists in charge of America.

The American entry into the Great War, tipped the balance in favor of
Britain and France, but it came with a price. Wilson played a prominent
role in the post-war diplomacy and that meant the dismembering of
the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the imposition of draconian punishments
on Germany. The fact that Hitler came from Austria suggests history has
a sense of humor. The point though is that the extreme expression of
liberal democracy conquered and destroyed the last empires of Europe and
imposed its will on the West.

This conflict between democracy and monarchy is the launching pad for
[Hans-Herman Hoppe’s critique of
democracy](https://www.amazon.com/Democracy-God-That-Failed-Perspectives/dp/0765808684).
Hoppe is a libertarian, so his critique is aimed at elevating his
preferred social arrangements, which he calls the natural order. As a
libertarian, his concern is purely on the material, but others have
picked up on the idea and extended it into the cultural realm. Whatever
the defects of monarchy, it provides a much more robust cultural
framework than democracy, which tends to reward the worst instincts of
citizens.

Another angle to this way of thinking of the 20th century is that the
West struck a bargain of sorts. In exchange for accepting American
imposition of liberal democracy, the West got peace and prosperity. That
worked fine as long as the American ruling class accepted the
fundamentals of the nation state. That is, a nation was the geographic
boundary of a single people, who were ruled by people chosen from their
own ranks, by the people themselves. Stable borders and stable cultures
defined the modern political entity.

Like doing business with the mafia, accepting the American hegemony
meant going along with the rules set by America. That was fine when
America was ruled by white men with a strong attachment to the West and
Western traditions. That changed toward the end of 20th century as the
complexion of the American population slowly changed and the attitudes
of the American ruling class began to change. America no longer believes
in the nation state and has tried hard imposing that belief on the
ruling classes of Europe.

Up until the last few years, it appeared that this abandonment of the
old order was going to go on without much resistance. But the revolts we
are seeing in Europe, with the rise of nationalist parties and growing
resistance to immigration, suggests the American hegemony is beginning
to unravel. More important, the rise of Trump and his push to make the
Europeans stand on their own feet suggests the American retreat is not
without some support in the ruling class. The Wilsonian order may
finally be about to unravel.

This does not mean we will see the return of monarchy. Hoppe’s critique
of democracy has merit, but his error is the same made by the Western
ruling class over the last half century. That is, the assumption that
political economy is the horse that pulls the cart of human society.
What Muslim immigration is teaching Europe is that biology is what
drives society. Get the biology right and you can make any political
system work, but the only way social democracy can work is in a
homogeneous population.

The unraveling of the American hegemony is the retreat of the
universalism that has always animated progressivism. It is not so much
that democracy failed, as Hoppe claims, but that universalism has
failed. The reason Europeans have reacted so strongly to a relatively
small influx of foreigners, is universalism has never been a part of
continental culture. Tossing it off will be much easier for them than
for Americans, but the reality of demographics will force the issue
everywhere.
