---
title: "The Wages Of Parasites"
date: "2018-06-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14051"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14051"
---

According to [this
story](https://www.wsj.com/articles/sears-closing-more-stores-as-sales-shrink-for-26th-quarter-in-a-row-1527764313)
in the Wall Street Journal, Sears is on the verge of finally going out
of business. For people under the age of forty, this is a meaningless
event, as Sears has not been a part of the public consciousness for
decades. For those old enough to remember, the early 1990’s was the last
time Sears was an anchor store at malls and shopping centers. I think
the last time I had a reason to shop at Sears was at the old Natick Mall
in the 1990’s. I bought a kitchen item, but I no longer recall exactly.

The conventional telling of these stories says that the big retail
stores were killed by some combination of Amazon and the internet. That
is mostly just mythmaking as companies like Sears were struggling when
Amazon was still just a river in Brazil. The big box store, as they came
to be called, was always a bad idea that started to show signs of
weakness in the 80’s. The logic of this type of retail is a race to the
bottom, where margins are maintained by stripping out the value that is
implicit in the local retail store concept.

Think of it this way. The local retailer does more than sell stuff. In
practice, he stocks the things popular with his community and offers
customer service to help his neighbors get the best product for their
needs. He is also going to sponsor the local little league teams and
participate in the community. Big retail takes the social capital and
customer service and turns that into a quick profit for the chain store,
by cutting prices on the retail side and purchasing power on the supply
side. It is a form of economic piracy.

This model works fine until all of the local competition is gone. At
that point it is a battle of soulless wholesalers operating out of
warehouse style facilities. The only competition between Sears and
K-Mart, another defunct chain, was price and location. One thing that is
certain about a race to the bottom is that everyone eventually reaches
the finish line and for big retail that has meant bankruptcy. You see
this with Amazon. Their retailing arm is the marketing expense for their
media and technology services now.

This is why conservatives used to be skeptical of capitalism. They
correctly saw the reality of large-scale retail. It was not that the big
retailer was better at selling products or provided a better service. In
fact, it has always been obvious. If you go to your local Home Depot,
for example, you are unlikely to get any help from the staff, unless you
tackle one of them in the aisle. Even then, the quality of service is so
poor, you are better off not asking for help. Big retail turns customer
service into a net negative.

Big retail operates as a parasite through false economy. It is a form of
cost shifting, where the loss of social capital and customer service is
pushed into the distance, while the cheap prices are in the present. The
Old Right understood the corrosive nature of this form of retail and
opposed it. Today, everyone laments the loss of local retail and the
town shopping district. We are told it is the result of Amazon being a
better choice, but in reality, the cause is the willingness of our
leaders to auction off our social capital.

Another example of this is the local industrial supply store. Electrical
wholesale, welding supplies, HVAC wholesalers and other businesses that
served the trades used to be locally owned family businesses. They were
never wildly profitable, but they provided a nice living as a family
business. Fred’s Welding Supply would sponsor a little league team,
while Fred participated in the community and sent his kids to the local
schools. Sometimes one guy would own a couple of stores if his town or
city were big enough to support it.

Today, these businesses have been bought up by investment firms powered
by credit money from investors. An investment firm gets set up and they
bankroll one bigger player as he buys up all of the competitors. The
“economies of scale” are that the owners are removed, the accounting and
sales staff is centralized, and the social capital is carted off to the
investors as profit. The customers may get a small break in price, but
usually the only thing they notice is the staff now treat them like
strangers, rather than neighbors.

Libertarians and “conservatives” will read this and reflexively start
chirping about free markets and invisible hands, but there is a reason
they are now a punchline. That is because these are ideologies, if you
want to be generous and elevate them to ideologies, that make all the
same assumptions about humanity as the Marxists. That is, they see man
as the ultimate consumer, a beast that devours his environment, in the
same way a plague of locusts wipes out a field. [Whittaker
Chambers](https://www.nationalreview.com/2005/01/big-sister-watching-you-whittaker-chambers/)
explained this 60 years ago.

*Tragedy is bypassed by the pursuit of happiness. Tragedy is henceforth
pointless. Henceforth man’s fate, without God, is up to him, and to him
alone. His happiness, in strict materialist terms, lies with his own
workaday hands and ingenious brain. His happiness becomes, in Miss
Rand’s words, “the moral purpose of his life.” Here occurs a little rub
whose effects are just as observable in a free enterprise system, which
is in practice materialist (whatever else it claims or supposes itself
to be), as they would be under an atheist Socialism, if one were ever to
deliver that material abundance that all promise. The rub is that the
pursuit of happiness, as an end in itself, tends automatically, and
widely, to be replaced by the pursuit of pleasure, with a consequent
general softening of the fibers of will, intelligence, spirit. No doubt,
Miss Rand has brooded upon that little rub. Hence, in part, I presume,
her insistence on “man as a heroic being” “with productive achievement
as his noblest activity.” For, if Man’s “heroism” (some will prefer to
say: “human dignity”) no longer derives from God, or is not a function
of that godless integrity which was a root of Nietzsche’s anguish, then
Man becomes merely the most consuming of animals, with glut as the
condition of his happiness and its replenishment his foremost activity.
So Randian Man, at least in his ruling caste, has to be held “heroic” in
order not to be beastly. And this, of course, suits the author’s
economics and the politics that must arise from them.*

A life with no other purpose than to work and consume is actually lower
than beastly, because the beast in the field only eats to live. It does
not live to eat. Like all living things, it lives to make more copies of
itself. For man, possessed of a self-awareness and the capacity to
remake his environment, the purpose of life expands to the celebration
of life by not only reproducing but leaving a cultural legacy for the
next generation. The point of life is for old men to plant trees in
whose shade they will never stand.

The auctioning off of our social capital has corresponded with [the
startling spike in suicide
rates](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2018/06/07/kate-spade-death-rising-suicide-rate-prevention/681563002/).
Cosmopolitan globalism and the transactional consumerism that drives it
strips people of their humanity. Like drug addicts, they no longer have
the capacity to experience the normal pleasures. The heroin addict is
always faced with the choice. Give up the junk and become whole again or
take the easy way out. That is what faces the people of the modern West.
The choice is revolt against modernity or amuse ourselves to death.

 
