---
title: "The Weak Leading The Crazy"
date: "2018-09-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14958"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14958"
---

The fake news phenomenon is not new. It’s been a part of the business
since William Randolph Hearst and Joseph Pulitzer invented it in the
United States. They are the two credited with inventing yellow
journalism and using it to get the U.S. to declare war on Spain at the
end of the 19th century. It probably goes back further, but it was these
two who figured out how to make it work. It’s not an accident that the
two men who created fake news have journalism awards named after them.

More recently, the gold standard of fake news is the fake human interest
story. This is where the fake reporter finds some fake people to
profile. Sometimes the people are real, but their story is fictionalized
and their quotes invented. Mike Barnacle had a long career at the Boston
Globe writing fake human interest stories. He was eventually found out
and fired, but people always knew he was a faker. He’s now a regular on
MSNBC as a fake guest.

Another variation on this is the Stephen Glass example. He was a write
for the New Republic, who wrote eye-catching first-person stories about
outlandish things supposedly happening in Washington. Of course, his
subjects were almost always conservatives acting in a way that
titillated the left. For example, he did a piece on CPAC in which he
described conservatives carrying on like a Roman orgy. He was eventually
found out and fired.

Despite that rather famous event, progressive publications have done
little to address the wholesale fraud that goes on in the business. All
sources are now “unnamed sources” by which they mean imaginary. Even
sports writers do this. It’s so egregious, it must be assumed that
everyone knows it is all fake. When someone reports on something that
only two people could know, and neither is named in the story, the
report must be fake.

This week we may be seeing fake news merge with mass hysteria to set off
a panic among the Cloud People. First we have Bob Woodward out with his
latest [collection of ghost
stories](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/09/05/most-overlooked-inexplicable-stories-bob-woodwards-trump-book/?utm_term=.67345e3294f3).
Woodward is the guy who used former CIA director Bill Casey as a source,
*while Casey was in a coma*. His Watergate writing was similarly full of
things too good to be true. There is a great
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/Silent-Coup-Len-Colodny/dp/1634240537"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">book</a> on that topic and all else
related to Watergate called Silent Coup.

Anyway, Woodward has a book out on Trump in which he strokes every
single fear and hatred of the loons. Perhaps sensing it was too obvious
or hoping to piggyback on the release, the [New York Times has an
op-ed](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/05/opinion/trump-white-house-anonymous-resistance.html)
up that is supposedly written by a White House insider. Reading the
thing, it feels as if it was written by a couple of clever college boys
pulling a prank. Judging from the <a
href="http://theweek.com/articles/765667/reveal-yourselves-trump-administration-resisters"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">reaction</a>, even liberals suspect it is
fake or at least too fake.

Of course, all of this is a coordinated effort by the mass media to
damage Trump in the run up to the midterm elections. We know this is a
coordinated effort because [they did their organizing in
public](https://www.wgbh.org/news/local-news/2018/08/15/boston-globe-organizes-coordinated-editorial-response-to-the-trump-administration)
view. Someone should tell the media that the point is to scare the
public, not scare yourselves. All these whoppers they are producing read
like the stuff pink pussy hat wearing gals tell one another after too
many gulps of chardonnay at their female empowerment club.

All of this is amusing, but it is also revealing. The mass media tells
us that there is no reason for the Dirt People to bother voting this
fall. The blue wave is coming in November, and the House will soon be
stuffed with exotic brown people, sporting funny names and a long list
of grievances against whitey. Yet, they are in a full panic, carrying on
as if they expect the opposite. The grotesque theater that was the
McCain funeral is another example that suggests these people are nuts.

Another amusing aspect to this is the loonies will no doubt have their
panties in a twist when the truth is revealed. If it is a real person in
the White House, the media will suddenly be outraged by the doxing of
this brave hero. Meanwhile, Darren Beattie will remain unemployed. If it
turns out the writer is Jayson Blair, the whole thing will be thrown
down the memory hole along with all the other hoaxes. Regardless, they
will consider the contents to be gospel for the next six years.

Journalism has always been about shaping public opinion. It has always
been fake news, which is why their top awards go to fakers It worked for
a long time because the guys who used to run the media were smart, and
they hired smart people. They also had a feel for their audience. Today,
the typical journalist is a hormonal girl, with a head full of feminist
nonsense. Alternatively, it is a foppish male with no useful skills and
no useful experience in the world.

Compounding it is the management class of these news organizations have
never done real reporting. Many came out of politics, never having
covered a fire or reported on a court case. They don’t know the basics
of the news business, so they are easily fooled by their obsequious
underlings. The result is the typical news organization is the weak
leading the crazy. In an age where facts are easily verified, fake news
needs to be smart, but instead it is stupid.
