---
title: "The Poz"
date: "2018-06-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14224"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14224"
---

I do not have a cable subscription, so the habit of channel surfing is
unavailable to me, which means I miss much of what passes for pop
culture. If I watch a movie, it is off the pirate system or from Amazon.
TV shows I can binge watch off the Kodi, without having to sit through
the commercials. Frankly, it is the only way I can watch television now.
The commercials are so full of multicultural proselytizing, that I
cannot make it through a normal show. That said, there are some shows
that are not full of Multikulti agit-prop.

Someone told me the TV series *12 Monkeys* was fairly good, so I binged
on the first couple seasons recently. The series is based on the movie,
which was a time travel flick starring Bruce Willis. The basic premise
is people in the future send people back in time in an effort to find
the people who caused a great plague. The idea is to alter the timeline
by preventing the plague or figuring out the nature of the plague in
order to create a treatment or vaccination against it. In the movie,
Bruce Willis was a time traveler.

The trouble with all time travel movies is that they can never figure
out how to manage the obvious problem of paradoxes. The writers usually
fixate on it, as it makes for interesting possibilities, but they lack
the smarts to make it work. Sometimes you have old self going back in
time to give young self answers, like what happened with Biff in the
*Back to the Future* series. Other times, the old self accidentally
alters something in the past, only to return to a wildly altered future,
his present. Then he has to go back and fix what he broke.

In this series, the writers actually do a good job avoiding the
hackneyed time travel plot gimmicks and produce a good plot that
respects the “reality” of time travel. I do not want to give too much
away, but it you read the book *The Man Who Folded Himself* you will
appreciate what the writers did with time travel. The show is relatively
free of poz. No heroic homosexuals, no superhero women, no magical
negros. It is mostly unknown white actors doing a serviceable job acting
out a reasonably well-done television script.

Now, no series about time travel can make it to the air without having
some scenes about the characters going back in time to Nazi Germany.
That is an unknown part of the secret law that was passed in the 60’s.
We get that nonsense in this series, but it is brief, even though they
obliquely try to blame the cause of the time travel conspiracy on the
Nazi scientists experimenting on Jews. It is the one bit of subversion
that was tucked into the script after it was written, on instructions
from the people producing the series.

The relative lack of poz in the series got me thinking about propaganda
in movies and when it became so heavy handed. I had the movie Death Wish
on my list, the new version, not the 1970’s version, so I watched it
along with the original last weekend. I had not watched the original
with Charles Bronson in decades. Frankly, I had forgotten just how bad
he was at acting. Then again, the 1970’s featured a lot of really bad
acting in popular movies. Maybe the audience just liked the stilted
dialogue and clunky style.

For those unfamiliar, the original Death Wish was made during the last
Progressive inspired black crime wave, which they started in the late
sixties. By the 70’s, most cities were unlivable because feral blacks
were running wild in the streets. Death Wish is about a normal
middle-class white guy who loses his family to home invaders and decides
to become a vigilante. The original makes the killers three Jewish guys,
one of whom is Jeff Goldbloom, so even in the 70’s, movies were poz’d up
on the race issue.

That said, the woman issue is where you see the difference. In the
opening to the original, Bronson is at the beach with his wife, who is
portrayed as a normal traditional wife. She likes looking like a woman
and being complimented on her looks. Bronson’s character enjoys her
being a woman and acts like a normal man. Throughout the movie, women
play normal female roles. Whenever I watch an old movie and see how
women were cast in their roles, I realize what a great mistake it was
giving into the feminist harpies.

The new version does the same thing with the race issue, of course. We
have reached the point now where it is forbidden to portray blacks as
anything other than noble victims or admirable heroes. That means we
have to pretend the nation’s crime problems are the fault of white
street gangs using outdated slang from the olden thymes or conspiracies
operated by evil white men. Otherwise, the remake is a decent version
that is free of the usual multicultural junk that makes most movie
watching miserable.

I have developed an interest in 1970’s pop culture, mostly because it
seems so alien to me, even though I was alive to remember some of it. I
was too young to notice most of it, so seeing it through old man eyes in
the current age, it feels like another world. It also reveals that the
multicultural assault on our society did not start last week. This is a
long term, multi-generational war on us that started before most of us
were born. [This scene](https://youtu.be/9rcIJIWqYmo) from the 1971
*Dirty Harry* movie is a warning from the long gone past.
