---
title: "Lessons from the Printer"
date: "2018-01-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12578"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12578"
---

The other day, my printer started giving me trouble. A green light kept
flashing that normally never flashes. An amber light was illuminated and
a dangerous looking red light was flashing over the door for the ink
cartridges. I pushed the button for printing out the diagnostic page and
the results were not good. While the print heads were in fine shape and
the ink cartridges more than half full, the pink cartridge had expired.
In fact, it had expired last year, meaning I had been using an ink
corpse for almost a year.

I removed the pink, which is called magenta for some reason, and
examined it. I did not see any signs of decomposition, so I put it back
in and the lights returned to normal. I was able to print whatever it
was I was printing. The next time I tried to print something, the bad
lights lit up and I had to go through the same process. For some reason,
taking the cartridge out and putting it back in tells the printer to
ignore its own concerns about the fitness of the ink cartridge, but only
for one print session.

Of course, expiry dates on ink cartridges are ridiculous. In theory the
thing can dry up, but that is just another version of empty. The whole
point of doing this is to force users into buying new printers. In my
case, the ink replacements will cost twice what I paid for the printer.
Only an idiot would do that, so I will buy a new printer for $100.
Apparently, something happens to ink cartridges to make them cheaper
when they are wrapped with a new printer. That means trashing a working
printer because pink has expired.

Imagine buying a cheap compact car and finding out that a brake job or a
new set of tires costs more than the car. That would never happen, of
course, because public outrage would force the government to crack down
on the car makers. Built-in obsolescence is fine if it only applies to
styles or fashion. When it is part of the engineering process of a good,
then the state is expected to step in and put an end to the practice.
Planned obsolescence is a form of fraud. The maker is using insider
knowledge to trick you.

There has been at least [one court
case](https://casetext.com/case/blennis-v-hewlett-packard-co) over the
practice of the obsoleting of ink cartridges by HP. The resolution was a
few million bucks, nothing to discourage the printer oligopoly from
continuing the practice. Third parties have tried to get into the print
cartridge business, but the makers abuse patent and copyright laws to
thwart them. [Lexmark went all the way to the Supreme
Court](http://www.ipwatchdog.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Supreme-Court-Impression-Products-Inc.-v.-Lexmark-International-Inc.-No.-15-1189-May-30-2017.pdf)
in order to block these companies from reproducing cheap ink cartridges.
Lexmark lost, but only on narrow grounds so the practice continues.

This is an example of something Steve Sailer has pointed out about
Silicon Valley. This industry has thrived as much by thwarting the laws
that apply to other industries as they have by pushing the barriers of
technology. Whether it is patent laws or labor laws, these big tech
firms have played by a different set of rules. In fact, they have often
been given the right to make the rules. Volkswagen is facing a criminal
probe over gaming the emissions system, while [Apple faces none for
tampering with your
phone](https://9to5mac.com/2017/12/29/apple-slowing-iphones-class-action-lawsuits/).

The other thing that the printer scams, and now the phone scams, are
signaling is the end of the technological revolution. Companies like
Google and Apple stopped being technology companies a long time ago.
Instead, they are oligopolists. In the case of Apple, they were never a
technology company. They were a design and marketing firm that
repackaged existing technology into cool consumer products appealing to
cosmopolitan hipsters. They sell expensive display items for the trend
setters and the fashionable.

As [a reader at Sailer’s
site](http://www.unz.com/isteve/has-keyness-much-derided-forecast-of-a-15-hour-workweek-come-true-at-google/)
observed, Google now resembles an adult daycare center where mentally
disturbed women terrorize the few people doing real work. Google has not
much of anything, in terms of tech, once it gained a near monopoly of
on-line advertising. The reason Susan Wojcicki can wage endless jihad at
a money losing division like YouTube is it is owned by an oligopolist
given a special right to skim from every internet user on earth. Google
is now a tax farmer, not a tech company.

The end of the Industrial Revolution featured civil unrest and
industrial scale violence across Europe. In the US, it resulted in great
social reform movements that ranged from public morality to economics.
By the middle of the 19th century, it was clear that the old feudal
governing system was no longer able to maintain order in Europe and the
colonial model was not working in America. A century of war and
revolution resulted in social democracy, a Western governing system
compatible with industrial societies.

What my printer is telling me is not just that the pink has expired, but
the social arrangements that allow this scam have also expired.
The Technological Revolution has made the old arrangements untenable. It
is why our ruling class struggles to do even the minimum. It may turn
out that the managerial state is the perfection of industrial age
governance, but entirely unsuited for the technological age. Whether or
not we are on the verge of a century of social tumult is hard to know,
but that is the lesson of history.

This also suggests that the great biotech revolution is unlikely to
happen. The Industrial Revolution happened outside of state control.
Similarly, the Technological Revolution happened outside of the
regulatory scheme. Biotech is pretty much a government funded and
regulated enterprise at the moment. There are no entrepreneurs in their
garage challenging the boundaries of genetics. All this work happens in
government sponsored and regulated laboratories. History says
revolutions from within never happen.
