---
title: "President Echo"
date: "2018-11-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15676"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15676"
---

Over the last two plus years, the prevailing assumption has been that
the Trump phenomenon is part of a greater populist backlash against the
corrosive effects of cosmopolitan globalism. Trump’s alleged populism is
linked to nationalist movements in Europe, where natives are rebelling
against the migrant invasions. Despite the superficial similarities,
what is happening in America may not be analogous to what is happening
in Europe. Instead, the Trump phenomena may be the last echo of old
stock America.

If you look at what Trump has done in office, versus what he has said,
his presidency has been rather conventional. He has cut a lot of
regulations, which is standard Republican stuff. He got a tax overhaul
passed, which is also standard issue Republicanism. His judges are all
right out of the Federalist society. Otherwise, the Trump administration
has been what we would have got from Jeb bush, except the marketing of
it has been much more entertaining than what you get from standard issue
conservatives.

What Trump’s presidency looks like is an echo of the Reagan presidency.
Reagan ran on a platform to roll back the cultural revolution of the
60’s and 70’s. He did not explicitly say it, but that is what everyone
assumed. He talked about shrinking government, reforming taxes, and
rolling back cultural excesses like abortion and affirmative action. He
also talked about economics and foreign policy, but the people who voted
for him were looking at the domestic items. People really believed the
Reagan revolution was a rollback.

That last bit has been understandably forgotten by the current ruling
class. They do not even talk about the Reagan Democrat phenomenon. That
was the great re-alignment in the 1980’s that carried into the 1990’s.
Working class whites, who had always voted Democrat, changed parties
over the culture issues. Things like taxes and regulation were nice, but
what got them to change parties was the culture war. They voted for
Reagan because they believed he would fix everything broken in the 60’s
and 70’s.

Instead, Reagan delivered a huge military buildup, massive deficits,
bigger government, and a debt fueled economic boom. All the talk of
entitlement reform ended, for example, when it threatened the military
buildup. Despite the enormous support from social conservatives, Reagan
delivered nothing on that front. Of course, the currency reforms in the
Reagan years made today’s debt boom possible. Then there was immigration
reform, which is turning out to be the Gipper’s most important policy
achievement.

Reagan was the Baby Boomer’s ideal president, in that he delivered to
middle-class boomers exactly what they wanted. They were in their prime
work years, so they got low taxes, a roaring economy, and a booming
investment climate. Their parents were getting old, so they got
assurances that the government would pay for all the entitlements. Of
course, the boomer kids were in school, so we got a boom in education
spending. Boomers have always been socially liberal, so nothing was ever
done to address the cultural stuff.

The way to look at the 1980’s is as an echo of Eisenhower’s America.
Watch movies from the period, like Star Wars or Indiana Jones, and what
you see are remakes of the wholesome action films middle-class boomers
grew up on as kids. Even the foreign policy stuff had a whiff of
Eisenhower’s era. Instead of kids hiding under their desks at school,
kids watched movies like Red Dawn or [The Day
After](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Day_After) to get good and
scared about the Soviets. The 1980’s were a Spielberg remake of the
1950’s.

Trump won election as a remake of the Reagan election. It is not a
perfect analogy, but people forget that the Gipper talked tough on the
campaign trail. The tone police followed him around too. As much as
Trump gets cast as the white nationalist’s president, he is pretty much
just standard middle American white guy, in terms of his politics and
delivery. Like Reagan, the white working class voted for him, thinking
he would roll back the last three decades of excess. Just as with
Reagan, none of that is going to happen.

Instead, he is delivering what the middle-class boomers want. They are
heading into retirement, so keeping the stock market humming, and making
sure inflation is in check is their top priority. Of course,
entitlements cannot be touched. As for immigration, nothing is going to
change, because this is not important to them. They live in nice safe
suburbs and rely on the little brown guys to mow the lawn. Maybe the
visiting nurse is from Trinidad or perhaps the grand kids nanny is a
nice Guatemalan woman who is teaching them
[Mam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mam_language).

The trouble, of course, is that middle-class boomers are a shrinking
block. The invasion plus the actuarial tables is making them less of a
factor. The remnants of the old Reagan coalition came out of mothballs
to shock the pollsters and the political elite in 2016, but they are not
making that mistake again. As we saw in the midterms, they can
manufacture all the foreign votes they need to win the 2020 election.
This echo of old heritage America is going to be weaker and shorter than
the Reagan echo. It will be the last.
