---
title: "Waiting For The Spark"
date: "2018-08-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14683"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14683"
---

At lunch recently, I overheard two young women talking about the coming
revolution, which I assumed was a joke, so I eavesdropped for a little
while bit turned out that they were talking about revolution. The bossy
looking one was going on about something Trump did, and how it was going
to be the thing that “woke people up about what is really happening.” My
guess is the part I missed had something to do with Russians or maybe
the Manafort Trial. The Left is obsessed with that now.

Since the election, the Left has been dreaming up scenarios in which the
results of the election are overturned. For a long time, they were sure
Trump would be impeached, but that seems to have faded. Last year my
left-wing office manager was deep into the impeachment scenarios. Now
the talk is of revolution, which probably fits better with their
conception of themselves as the heroic resistance. They imagine Trump as
a strong man, against whom they must resist until the system cracks.

Most of us think of revolution in the sense of people flooding into the
streets to protest the government. Either the government makes an error,
causing the mob to turn violent or radicals use unrest to foment a
full-on revolt. The two models in the Western mind are the French
Revolution and the Bolshevik Revolution. Given the make-up of the
anti-Trump forces, it’s hard to imagine either scenario. The
“resistance” is mostly [girls and
non-whites](http://anepigone.blogspot.com/2018/08/white-male-overrepresentation-among.html)
prone to committing violence against one another.

There is another model of revolution, that may be what our current
rulers have in mind for us and that is the Cultural Revolution unleashed
by Mao Zedong. This was a revolution from above, where the revolutionary
elite enlisted the masses at the bottom to purge the middle of bourgeois
traitors. Mao purged the party of rivals and then used subsequent
protests to advance a lurch into radicalism. The complaints about party
leaders were an excuse to start a cultural revolution.

The most famous aspect of it was the Red Guards. This was a student
movement aimed at unleashing “a great revolution that touches people to
their very souls and constitutes a deeper and more extensive stage in
the development of the socialist revolution in our country.” Sinophiles
hate the comparison, but this sounds a lot like our billionaire class
financing the various radical groups and social justice warriors we see
rampaging through the culture today.

Another point of comparison is the war on the “Four Olds” which were old
customs, culture, habits, and ideas. This was both a war on the past, as
well as a war on the culture itself. For example, the Red Guards pulled
the remains of a Ming dynasty emperor out of his tomb, denounced him and
then burned the remains. They went around renaming streets and toppling
statues.  Today’s radicals do the same thing and preach against racism,
sexism, homophobia and antisemitism.

No historical comparison is perfect. Again, Sinophiles really hate the
comparison, but people are conservative about what they think they know
best. There’s also the fact that Chinese culture is remarkably strong,
and it was largely able to resist the ten-year campaign to obliterate
it. American culture appears to be brittle and falling apart under the
weight of a fifty-year planned invasion. The Chinese did not fill up
their lands with hostile foreigners, armed with a ballot by the ruling
class.

On the other hand, there are limits to everything. As the outrages from
the Left stack up, the average white person in American grows angrier.
Talk to anyone sympathetic to this line of thinking and they will tell
you they have grown far less tolerant of their remaining liberal
friends. I know I’ve lost touch with quite a few former friends, because
I will not tolerate their nonsense. I have friends who just a few years
ago thought Ben Shapiro was edgy and now think I am too soft.

The question is what it would take to move people from yelling at their
televisions over the latest liberal outrage to marching in the streets.
Sometimes, the smallest spark sets the biggest fire. The reaction to
Alex Jones getting purged from the internet has been surprising, given
that he is not a serious person. People, who never heard of him until
yesterday, are angry over his banishment. My guess is the percentage of
people thinking fondly of Pinochet is at an all-time high right now.

As far as the spark, a move against Trump is good bet. The glue that
keeps things from flying apart right now is middle-class white people,
who still have faith in the political system. These are the middle
American radicals Sam Francis wrote about 30 years ago during the Reagan
moment. They will tolerate just about anything, if they think they can
fight the other side within the system. An effort to remove Trump or
even silence his advocates, could be a spark that gets these people into
the streets.

Extra-political efforts to ban guns are another possible spark. The
coordinated efforts to cut off gun makers from the financial system is
dangerous. Gun owners follow this stuff and there are a lot of them. The
pink pussy hat people think they have numbers because billionaires will
bus fifty thousand of them into DC. The NRA could get a million people
in the streets if there is ever a real threat to gun rights. A big part
of gun culture is the idea of the patriot bravely taking up arms to
resist tyranny.

It is tempting to think this will all blow over. I just don’t see how it
will ever be possible to make peace with the Left. They hate us and will
use any means necessary. The lack of code is the critical part. How does
one make peace with someone that will never abide by the rules? Whether
this results in revolution, counter revolution or civil war is hard to
know, but the number of people thinking the gap cannot be bridged is
growing every day, so we wait for the Cossack’s wink.
