---
title: "Foreign Rule"
date: "2018-10-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15354"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15354"
---

The Department of Justice has recently announced that [the new great
devil for the Empire is the drug
cartels](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2018/10/17/sessions-whole-of-government-effort-to-take-down-drug-cartel-they-are-in-our-crosshairs/),
operating just over the border. Empires need an enemy and to his credit,
Trump is unwilling to pick enemies from the other side of the globe.
Instead, he prefers more practical enemies, ones that cause real
Americans real trouble in the real country. The drug cartels are not a
threat to “our democracy” or a threat to freedom around the world. They
sell drugs and murder Americans right here in America.

That is a welcome change, given that Trump has often flirted with neocon
lunacy regarding Iran and Syria. The ruling class and their media organs
will never admit it, but one main reason for Trump is that white people
grew tired of fighting wars for a ruling class that despises them. The
fact that the Trump administration seems to be serious about the
problems south of the border suggests they either get that or simply
know how to read polling. Mexican drugs and crime are a serious concern
for normal white people.

The curious thing is why it must be cast as some sort of great crusade.
Mexico is a poor country, relative to America. It is not Africa, but it
is it not Canada either. One reason the cartels are a problem is the
Mexican government is unable to assert its control over all its
territory. The Federal Police are riddled with corruption, as the drug
cartels can buy them off or threaten them off. The government is always
worried about the loyalty of the army, so deploying them against the
cartels is a complicated proposition.

One of the interesting results of this is we have a very good
understanding of who runs the cartels, where they operate and where they
manufacture products. Occasionally, the Mexican government asks for help
nabbing a drug lord and we can direct them to the right place at the
right time. We can do this using old school signal intelligence. Unlike
the Middle East, we are not deploying an army of drones to monitor what
is happening on the ground. If we wanted, we could own the air space
tomorrow.

The proof of this is that we can locate a troublemaker in Yemen and hit
them with a missile, without having anyone on the ground in Yemen. We
have been perfecting drone warfare in both Yemen and Afghanistan for
almost two decades now. Presumably, conducting drone warfare in our
backyard, with lots of human resources on the ground to augment the
drone surveillance, would be much more effective. If we wanted, we could
unleash unlimited drone warfare on the cartels to devastating effect.

Of course, the politics of fighting Mexican cartels are even better than
running a drone war over the horizon. The support for droning savages in
Afghanistan and Yemen is non-existent, so the ruling class no longer
discusses it. Their effort to make the murder of the Saudi journalist a
big deal is a good example of how little Americans now care about what
is happening with these people. A barbaric theocracy murdered one of
their people inside the borders of a neighboring barbaric theocracy.
Also, water is still wet.

In contrast, imagine Trump announcing that the opioid problem has
reached such a crisis that he is ordering the military to conduct
operations over the border to defend the country against these cartels.
Throw in a secondary announcement that he has ordered the arrest and
deportation of [the Sackler
family](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2017/10/30/the-family-that-built-an-empire-of-pain)
and Trump’s approval rating soars. The Left would cry out in pain as
they strike out at Trump over it, but as we are seeing, this is becoming
an ineffective tactic, as people embrace more realistic politics.

This brings us back to where we started. Fixing the problems with Mexico
is such an obvious winner politically, but no one talks about it. Trump
won the White House on his promise to build a border wall, among other
things, but no one in the political class has much interest in the
problems with the border. You do not have to be a conspiracy buff to
think that maybe this is not just serendipity. It is not just the
politicians who ignore the issue. The so-called conservative media has
always worked hard to ignore it.

It is one of those issues, which reveal the deep loathing of typical
white people that has become normalized in the American ruling class.
When the ruling class thinks about the heroin problem, they think,
“Well, they deserve it.” They do not think of middle-class parents
finding their kid dead in her bed from a fentanyl overdose. They think
of snaggle-toothed hillbillies living in shacks, with a few Confederate
flags hanging on the walls. For our rulers, there are good whites and
bad whites, and we are all bad whites.

That is why these bread-and-butter issues no longer resonate with the
political class. Few of them have any acquaintance with real work. They
popped out of prep school into a nice college, then grad school and then
a position in the managerial class. The normal people in their family
are soon transformed into props for their fictional origin story about
how they were discriminated against, victimized or made to feel sad in
some way. Theirs is a world of highly choreographed gestures designed to
display their piety and fidelity to the class.

For the ruling elite, we are the dirty natives over whom they
reluctantly rule. This colonial mentality has become a part of ruling
class culture. It is why they remain baffled by the popularity of
Trump’s economic agenda. It is not that they oppose it. It is that they
do not understand why anyone would care about coal miners in West
Virginia or steamfitters in Ohio. It is why they never think about
addressing the Mexican cartel problem or the human trafficking at the
border. These are not their problems and therefore none of their
concern.

This is the result of foreign rule. America is the first purely cultural
empire, so it is no surprise that we are the first people to be ruled by
native born foreigners. The iron rule of foreign domination is that it
ends poorly for the rulers. People prefer to be ruled by their own kind.
Maybe what we are seeing with Trump is another first. The peaceful
transition from foreign rule to local rule, with the foreigners going
native. It seems unlikely, but Trump winning the White House was
unlikely. Maybe this strange age will come to a strange end.
