---
title: "The Gathering Darkness"
date: "2018-04-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13481"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13481"
---

In *Reflections on the Revolution in Europe*, Christopher Caldwell <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Reflections-Revolution-Europe-Immigration-Islam/dp/0385518269"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">wrote</a>, “One moves swiftly and
imperceptibly from a world in which affirmative action can’t be ended
because its beneficiaries are too weak to a world in which it can’t be
ended because its beneficiaries are too strong.” It is a wonderful
observation that applies to much more than just affirmative action. It
seems to apply to all aspect of the Left. Today’s minority view is
tomorrows absolute, inviolable dogma.

That has been the way with the Left and science. It used to be common to
see a Subaru or Volvo decorated with a Darwin fish. The point was to let
the world know that the driver was a good liberal, who embraced reason,
rather than superstition. Of course, the other point was to stick it to
Christians, who the Left had declared their enemy in the middle of the
last century. Even so, science was a big part of how Progressives
defined themselves, but then suddenly, imperceptibly, the opposite was
true.

That’s what we are seeing with the response to David Reich’s book, [Who
We Are and How We Got
Here](https://www.amazon.com/Who-Are-How-Got-Here/dp/110187032X/) and
the subsequent articles he has written about his research. The great
[Greg Cochran](https://westhunt.wordpress.com/) has been reviewing the
book, pointing out the bizarre contortions Reich goes through in order
to avoid having his lab burned down. It is a bit of an exaggeration to
say that Reich fears an angry torch wielding mob, but it is only a small
exaggeration. Many careers have been ruined by getting on the wrong side
of the mob.

Understandably, Cochran takes exception to much of this, because he is a
true man of science. He values truth above all else. He has no patience
for the political, and now theological, nonsense that saturates the
modern academy. There’s also a personal aspect to it, as Reich takes
some cheap shots at the late Henry Harpending, who was Cochran’s
colleague for many years. They collaborated on [The 10,000 Year
Explosion](https://www.amazon.com/000-Year-Explosion-Civilization-Accelerated/dp/0465020429/) and
on [this groundbreaking
paper](http://web.mit.edu/fustflum/documents/papers/AshkenaziIQ.jbiosocsci.pdf).
Cochran can be forgiven for taking this a bit personal.

On the other hand, though, David Reich is young. He is in his prime
years as a scientist and as such he has to be careful to not upset the
mullahs in the orthodoxy. That’s why he is going through these
ham-handed efforts to inoculate himself against the charge of heresy.
The morality police may not burn down his lab, but they are more than
happy to burn down his career. If they will hurl a giant like James
Watson into the void, they will not flinch at David Reich.

If you are old enough to remember the 1980’s, you remember a time when
it was Progressives chanting about free speech, the need for independent
media and the glories of scientific inquiry. Today, it feels like a
million years ago, only because none of it is true now and not just in
small ways. Progressives have swung so far in the opposite direction,
becoming what they always claimed they were fighting, it is impossible
to imagine them being otherwise.

The funny thing is that our Progressive mullahs are probably worse than
the people who suppressed Galileo. Relatively speaking, they are worse
than Torquemada. The old inquisitor was quite lenient, relevant to the
age, when stealing a cow could get you hanged. Galileo’s trouble with
the Church had as much to do with politics and his personal squabbles as
science. Today, the people in charge take a perverse pleasure in
destroying the life of a heretic. [Billionaires now hunt Dirt
People](https://www.fastcompany.com/40549979/when-jack-dorseys-fight-against-twitter-trolls-got-personal)
on-line for sport.

If you are in the human sciences, none of this is lost on you. If you
read academic papers, they have become so thick with jargon and
statistics, [they are
impenetrable](https://www.nature.com/news/it-s-not-just-you-science-papers-are-getting-harder-to-read-1.21751)
to all but the people in the field. Some of it is the normal pattern of
group behavior, but some of it is a defense against the charge of
heresy. Instead of writing coded notes in the margins of approved texts,
people in the human sciences rely on impenetrable gibberish and
eye-glazing statistics.

One thing that is clear, in hindsight, is that Church efforts to contain
the growth of scientific inquiry were a rearguard action. The
institutional place of the Church was not toppled by science and reason.
The role of religious institutions was already diminishing with the rise
of the secular institutions and the spread of commerce. The clergy was
no longer the richest faction in European society. Their efforts to
re-impose order on society was reactionary and doomed. The world was
changing.

Perhaps something similar is happening with Progressives and human
sciences. Their embrace of reason was always like their embrace of
liberal democracy, socialism and social reform. It is as a means to an
end. Free speech was a bus they rode from their position outside the
academy, to a position atop the academy. Once they got to their
destination, they got off the free speech bus. That is certainly true of
their embrace of science and reason. Once they gained power, they peeled
the Darwin fish off the car.

On the other hand, there is no reason to think that humanity is a linear
progression from tribal darkness to some glorious post-human future. We
have the phrase “dark ages” because there have been dark ages, when
society collapsed and sat dormant for centuries. Back when the turn
began, Allan Bloom wrote that relativism and multiculturalism were
ushering in a [closing of the American
mind](https://www.amazon.com/Closing-American-Mind-Education-Impoverished/dp/1451683200).
Perhaps now we are seeing the fruit, the coming of a new dark age [ruled
by fanatics and
dullards](http://mysite.du.edu/~treddell/3780/Kornbluth_The-Marching-Morons.pdf).
