---
title: "Old Aliens"
date: "2018-04-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13636"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13636"
---

When I was a kid, smart adults still believed that humans would be
visiting other planets sooner rather than later. That was mostly a
carryover from the previous generations, who managed to get from zero to
the moon in roughly a decade. If you were into this stuff in 1968, it
was hard not to think that the next stop for man was Mars and then from
there the rest of the solar system. By the time I was becoming aware of
the world, this was fading, but there were plenty of optimists and
romantics, with regards to space travel.

It really was a generational thing. By the time my generation was
noticing things the space program had stalled and there did not seem to
be a point to it. The competition with the Russians had decayed into a
fight over the mundane and pointless. My guess is beating the Russians
in hockey counted for more to most Americans than the space shuttle
managing to take off, go to space and come back in one piece. Subsequent
generations are simply too self-absorbed and self-indulgent to care much
about space travel.

Of course, a big part of it is the self-inflicted wounds from previous
generations that continue to tax us to this day. If Boomers and their
parents had not decided to violate the rules of human nature in the 60’s
and 70’s with a laundry list of social programs, things may have been
different. The money spent on “fixing race relations” could have
financed several trips to the stars. Our ruler’s endless fights with
observable reality is like a leash keeping us from doing much more than
squabbling over our own destruction.

Putting aside the Spenglerian interpretation of the recent past, there
is another way to understand the technological stall. [This
post](http://www.unz.com/isteve/the-last-wwii-physicist-on-the-future-of-the-human-race/)
the other day by Steve Sailer had some interesting stuff in it, but the
space travel stuff is what got my attention. Freeman Dyson is of that
generation that thought we would be much further along in exploring the
universe than we are today. He still assumes it will happen, despite the
obvious decline in overall human capital due to changes in demographics
and social mobility.

What occurred to me reading it is humanity probably needs to go through
a different period of technological advance, before we can make the
great leap to exploring the stars. If you look at the generation of
geniuses who took us from propeller planes to rocket ships, peaking with
the moon landing, it all happened in about one generation. It really was
a remarkable run. In the 1930’s, the concepts of rocketry were being
worked out and 30 years later a rocket was hurling men to the moon. That
is a distinguished career.

That is what it really is, one career. The sorts of people who work on
these types of projects are not starting as teenagers. They go through
years of education and apprenticeship, before they get on the big
project. A career making project is going to be one that happens within
the normal span of a human career, which is about 30 years for a
cutting-edge scientist.  A guy like David Reich, who is doing
groundbreaking work in ancient genetics, is never going to do much of
anything else. This is his peak.

Well, if you are an ambitious guy looking to do space work and be part
of a great project, you are not picking one that will take 50 years to
finish. Some people may be fine toiling away at some small aspect of the
50-year project, but most people, especially the people funding it, are
not going to find it appealing. If Elon Musk is going to bankroll a trip
to Mars, he wants it to happen in the next decade, so he can take credit
for it. The same is true of the scientist he would recruit. They want to
get it done before they retire or die.

What this means is that space travel, beyond orbiting the earth or maybe
revisiting the Moon, is going to first require extending the human life
span. A mission to land people on Mars and return them to earth is
probably 30 years away. Getting propulsion technology to traverse the
solar system is a fifty- or sixty-year project. Figuring out how to
survive longer periods in space is an even longer project. Before humans
figure any of this out, it is going to mean living much longer lives so
that a person can have a 50- or 60-year working life.

Think about it. If a person could reasonably assume a working career
that started in the mid-20’s and goes strong to 100, with a slight
decline at the end, that’s roughly a 60-year prime working life. With
twice the time, you take more risks, and you take on different career
objectives. Suddenly a twenty-year project to put men on Mars is not
that big of a deal to the financiers or the scientists. Stretch the
lifetime out further and the much more daunting projects can be chipped
away at by a team expecting to finish in their lifetime.

Logically, it means the same would hold for some alien species that
eventually come to visit us on earth. Those aliens we have stored in
Area 51 are probably old, as their species had to unriddle problems that
would take hundreds of years to solve, not to mention the fact that it
was an extremely long trip from their home planet. The nearest habitable
planet outside our solar system is roughly four light years from earth,
which means it was a very long trip for our alien visitors. They must
have been extremely old.

The other aspect of this is a longer life would mean more experience.
Our IQ may be fixed, but we have an infinite capacity for screwing up.
The longer the life, the more trial and error a person would endure.
Someone living five hundred earth years is not going to be any better at
math, but they would be much more prudent. That would mean at the upper
limits, the species would become less rash and less prone to error.
Those dead aliens in New Mexico are an outlier, because their kind
rarely misses its intended target.
