---
title: "Racket Street"
date: "2018-09-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14998"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14998"
---

Arguably, the greatest newspaper columnist of the modern media era, or
at least the newspaper era, was [H.L.
Mencken](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H._L._Mencken). He’s ignored
these days because he was a realist about the great questions of his
day. He opposed entry into both wars, and he was a race realist. Back
then, the ruling class still debated this stuff and the commentariat
welcomed all views. America was still a country that trusted itself.
Today, deviationists are hurled into the void because the people in
charge are petrified of anything resembling dissent.

The opinion writers in the modern mass media are all pens for hire.
Their job is to sell the glories of their masters. For example, all of
the [Never Trump
loons](https://media.boingboing.net/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/Kevin-D-Williamson.jpg)
that turned up in so-called conservative publications were being played
by a couple of billionaires. They never bothered to admit it, but it is
the thing everyone knows. The left-wing Progressives are similarly
funded by billionaires, with the most obvious examples being the New
York Times and the Washington Post. The news business is just a PR
department now.

Like so much of modern America, the business of selling the public on
the glories of the plutocrats has become a racket. A good recent example
is something called [the R Street Institute](https://www.rstreet.org/),
started and run by someone calling himself  [Eli
Lehrer](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/author/eli-lehrer), who is
something of a universal man. He has published in far-Left publications
like the Huffington Post and on so-called conservative sites like
National Review. Even in our corrupt age, it seems like a stretch for
someone to have an audience in both publications, but there we are.

R Street pitches itself as a free market think tank, hoping people will
mistake them for libertarian or conservative. An amusing bit of their
pitch is this line on their site. “To maintain its independence, R
Street accepts no government funding.” This is part of the grift being
run on the public these days. If the entity depriving you of your rights
or robbing you of your income is a private entity, then it is all good.
After all, only communists oppose private enterprise! If you are not
murdered by the state, it’s all good.

Of course, The R Street Institute is just another racket. That may be
why they picked the name, as a nod to the fact they are running a grift.
When you start to [dig
around](https://www.sourcewatch.org/index.php/R_Street_Institute) into
the background of the place, it is not long before you stumble upon
neocon grifters like David Frum and Marni Soupcoff. These people are
like a drug-resistant virus. No matter how many times they are chased
off the stage, they keep coming back. It seems America will have to be
tented and fumigated before these pests are finally eradicated.

That’s really the way to look at them. Over the last year or so,
mainstream publications have been posting stuff from writers with the R
Street label. [This
one](https://amgreatness.com/2018/09/04/the-rise-and-fall-of-the-alt-right/)
on the American Greatness site is a good example. That site is famous
for having hosted Michael Anton, the guy who wrote the Flight 93 column.
The subtext of this article is that the sorts of people attracted to
nationalism and populism are very bad people, but they’re losers and
going the way of the dodo so stop fighting the poz.

The writer is a hired pen for a globalist front group called the
[Institute for
Liberty](https://www.sourcewatch.org/index.php/Institute_for_Liberty),
which was one of the establishment operations that crushed the Tea Party
movement. Once it became clear that the natives were restless and ready
to try something new, all the establishment rackets swung into action to
“help” the grassroots organize. To the surprise of no one, but the
sincere people forming Tea Party groups, these establishment groups
co-opted the whole thing and made sure they were never a threat to the
orthodoxy.

You see the same sort of shenanigans with the R Street racket, except it
is a neocon front group, rather than a Republican racket. Since neocons
are toxic everywhere but Washington, they are now trying to fade into
the background of left-libertarianism, where they can try to subvert
nationalism and populism, without being obvious. Still, it is a stable
of pens for hire who will provide content for cable shows and websites,
all with the subtext that serves the interests of their paymasters. It’s
a racket for the opinion rackets.

To circle back to where we started, a century ago America could have a
raucous and combative press corps, along with razor-tongued columnists
like Mencken, because the people in charge were confident. Today’s
ruling class is so culturally disconnected from the North American
economic zone that they live in fear of what is brewing below the cloud
line. They hire armies of propagandists and censors to police the Dirt
People for deviationism. The result is [a commentariat that speaks to no
one for no
one](https://nationalinterest.org/feature/why-trumps-record-trumps-medias-spin-30757).

It’s easy to get down over the endless censorship and obnoxious
proselytizing we see in ads and entertainment. It’s important to keep in
mind that they are not doing this because they are confident. They are
doing it because they are afraid. If their product could sell itself, it
would not need enforcers and pitchmen. The Cloud People in their castles
are living in fear that the natives may becoming aware. Otherwise, they
would have no reason to be pushy dragoons to attack anyone who dares
question the orthodoxy.
