---
title: "The Other Trump Effect"
date: "2018-12-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15830"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15830"
---

One of the things that is true of the dissident right is that it was
helped greatly by the collapse of libertarianism. Starting in the late
1980’s and into the 1990’s, right-libertarianism was a safe haven for
realists to exist on the right but also reject large parts of what was
calling itself conservatism. The two most notable issues were the war on
drugs and foreign policy. Most people were attracted to libertarianism
because it was serious about small government and restrained foreign
policy.

After the fiasco of the Bush years and the explosion of progressive
fanaticism, libertarianism seemed ready to have its moment. The Ron Paul
campaign of 2008 was probably the peak. While no one thought Paul could
win, it certainly looked like he could break through and be a serious
candidate. Then the New Hampshire primary happened, where he got just
eight percent of the vote. It was thought to be the ideal place for a
guy running on libertarian ideas, but he bombed.

Talk to people in the alt-right and what you learn is they moved into
dissident politics after the disappointment of the Ron Paul campaign.
What they slowly figured out is that right-libertarianism was just a
proxy for white identity politics. The sort of country imagined by Ron
Paul could be nothing but a white country. Not only did it have no
appeal to blacks, it could never be multi-racial. Put another way, if
you want libertarian politics, you need white people.

Left-libertarianism is just a beard for progressivism, much in the same
was conservatism is just window dressing for the prevailing orthodoxy.
That is something else you hear from alt-right people. Many passed
through left-libertarianism, realized it was just low-tax liberalism,
moved into right-libertarianism and finally race realism. This is a
common story, even among Gen-X people. They found the Ron Paul crowd the
next best thing and moved into it in the 1990’s.

Something similar may be happening with Donald Trump. We are seeing some
new voices in the dissident right, guys like Josh Neal and Jefferson
Lee, who have recently made the trip from libertarianism. There are a
lot of people in the libertarian-conservative camp, who voted for Trump
as the least bad option. These are the [Flight
93](https://www.claremont.org/crb/basicpage/the-flight-93-election/)
voters, who never really liked Trump, but saw him as an agent of change.
He would break the old model of politics and usher in an era of reform.

A strong whiff of this is turning up in comment sections and social
media, where people sympathetic to Trump are increasingly frustrated at
the lack of progress. The overtly racial response to Trump from the
orthodoxy has probably red-pilled more people than Jared Taylor has done
in 30 years. The combined effect of Trump’s failures and the intensely
racial response from his opponents, is having a similar impact on whites
as the failure of Ron Paul libertarianism a decade ago.

Inevitably, the left had to make race and ethnicity central to their
presentation, because it is explicitly a coalition of identity groups
now. There is the Judeo-Puritan elite, ruling a collection of tribes
based in ethnicity, race, and selected perversions. There is simply no
way for the people at the top to rally their tribes without being
explicitly racial. Even their anti-male rhetoric is obviously anti-white
male rhetoric, which has always been an obvious war on white people.

The new blasphemy laws aimed at whites talking race is just a blunt
force implementation of the old prohibitions against frank debates about
race but done so in a way to rally the tribes. On the one hand, the hope
is they can stop the exodus of whites from conventional politics, by
anathematizing the subject. On the other hand, it is a useful way to
rally the troops. The result, however, is that our politics are
saturated in race and identity. Inevitably, whites are becoming race
conscious.

That is the other Trump effect. Most likely a Clinton or Bush presidency
would have been another four years of more subtle race mongering. It is
hard to know, of course, but there certainly would not have been the
panicked response from the orthodoxy if anyone else had won in 2016. It
was the shock of Trump not only rumbling through the first line of
defense and smashing the GOP but then driving the populist tank into the
middle of the progressive camp. The response has been revelatory.

What is happening now is that the amorphous blob of whites, variously
called CivNats, Conservatarians, right-libertarians and BoomerCons, is
waking up to the hard reality that defines dissident politics. That is,
the problem is not the people running the system, it is the system
itself that is the problem. No open system can govern a multi-racial,
multicultural empire. Liberal democracy is antithetical to
multiculturalism. Voting will not change that reality. Something else
must be done.

Just as many libertarians a decade ago realized that that you can only
have libertarianism in a white society, many Trump people are learning
something similar. The disillusionment with what is happening is leading
many Trump supporters to doubt the institutions, rather than the people
in them. You can have liberal democracy, orderly elections, and the rule
of law in an overwhelmingly white society. The lawless response to Trump
is driving Flight 93 voters into the camp of the dissident right.
