---
title: "The Coming Violence"
date: "2018-11-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15658"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15658"
---

Interpersonal violence tends to escalate quickly, where the combatants
seem to go from wary suspicion to verbal confrontation and then trading
blows. Anyone who has been in a bar fight understands this accelerated
process. Two guys are playing pool, words are exchanged and suddenly a
beer bottle is smashed over someone’s head. Sports fights follow a
similar pattern. Two players get a bit heated and then suddenly, you
have a bench clearing brawl. This even happens in the professional
ranks.

Of course, people do not actually go from zero to eleven in the blink of
an eye. It just appears that way to the outsider. There is an underlying
hostility between the parties that simmers until one or both conclude
that violence is the best option or the only option. In a bar fight, the
guy taking the first blow often assumes the other guy is about to do the
same thing. In a sports melee, normal male honor requires each side to
match the escalation of the other side until a fight breaks out.

This pattern can certainly play out in other areas of life. In fact,
rulers have always understood that general discontent among the rabble
is like a dry underbrush. It only takes a spark, and you have a forest
fire. In the case of civil unrest, a simmering discontent in the
community, or among a sub-group, can quickly turn into a riot. The
Rodney King riots in 1992 are a good example. The black underclass had
developed a deep hatred for the cops, so when the cops were acquitted,
that was the spark that set off the ghetto riot.

More recently and on a smaller scale, the shooting at the Pittsburgh
synagogue is an example of a member of a sub-culture who went from zero
to mass shooter in one afternoon. He did not pick the target at random
or even because they were Jewish, but rather because they were part of a
subversive group throwing open the gates to the country to foreign
invaders. In other words, like the guy slugging someone at a bar, the
shooter thought he was acting rationally, and violence was the only
rational option.

The point being, whether it is the seemingly incoherent and ad hoc
violence of a bar fight or sports melee, or a person or group committing
social violence, the actors arise from predictable conditions and act
quite rationally. There is a degree of predictability to their actions,
if you are willing to notice. It is why bouncers in bars keep an eye on
the males competing with one another for females. It is why sports
referees look for guys getting agitated and send them off the field to
cool down and get their head back in the game.

In modern America, there does not seem to be anyone in charge willing to
play the role of bouncer or referee. Instead, the people in charge are
like the guy with the stick in old-time bare-knuckle fights. They are
trying to get the combatants to go at one another, rather than keep them
under control. The deployment, tolerance, and protection of Antifa, for
example, is a deliberate provocation. The people in charge not only hope
these idiots hurt someone, but they also hope white men will defend
themselves so they can be railroaded by the courts.

At a smaller scale, the vicious and petty war on white men seems like it
is designed to create an American Anders Breivik. Every day, the news
brings stories of a white guy getting fired from his job because he told
the wrong joke, liked the wrong social media meme or simply was not
enthusiastic enough for Progressive fads. [This
story](http://www.espn.com/college-football/story/_/id/25385819/fsu-fan-tied-racist-post-willie-taggart-fired-job)
about a sportsball fan fired because he was upset at the black coach of
his favorite sportsball team is a good example. The celebratory tone of
the story should be noted.

Now, what is driving these hunts for the impertinent white guy is the
deadly virtue spiral among the ruling class. The dingbats in the media
who spend their days hunting down bad thinkers and getting them fired,
are acting from a desire for attention. The people at the company who
play along with it are acting out of fear. Is this a replay of the Reign
of Terror, where radicals spiraled out of control in an orgy of
violence? Or is it the Great Terror, where Stalin locked in his control
by killing off anyone that could threaten him?

The historically appropriate analogy is debatable, but what is not
debatable is modern America is not 18th century France of 20th century
Russia. In a multi-racial society, where the old majority is being
swamped by former minorities and those former minorities are told they
must hate the old majority. The atmosphere is nothing but kindling. A
prudent ruling class would be acting as firemen, hunting down anything
that looks like a spark, over- reacting if necessarily, to prevent a
blaze, they may not be able to control.

That is possibly a clue about what our ruling class truly fears. Much of
the political talk on the Left after the 2016 election was about how
they may have jumped the gun and created a bit of backlash. The BLM
murder sprees the summer before the election certainly opened a lot of
eyes to the reality of what comes next. The relentless hunting down of
internet racists could simply be an effort at calming their
constituents. A black guy, enraged by racists memes, going on a shooting
spree would be bad for the cause.

Alternatively, the hunting down of internet racists could simply be
another sign that the ruling class is oblivious to what is
happening. Hanlon’s Razor says to assume stupidity in these cases. The
people who rule over us are strangely unfamiliar with violence. They
know it only through their televisions. It is why they have embraced the
Antifa mobs. To people unfamiliar with violence, those black clad idiots
look like what managerial class types imagine revolutionaries look like.
They do not know what they do not know.

Either way, social discontent can easily turn to social unrest and then
violence. The people in charge are loading the forest with dry
underbrush and kindling, while flicking matches at one another. Maybe
they do not see the danger. Maybe they fear the wrong things. Perhaps
they want to see it all burn. Regardless of the motivation, the
conditions for political and social violence are just about perfect. One
of the matches the idiots in the media are flicking into the underbrush
will eventually set the world on fire.
