---
title: "The Social War"
date: "2018-03-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13106"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13106"
---

For most modern Americans, the issue of “rights” is talked about in
spiritual terms, more than practical or legal terms. The concept of
Natural Rights has lost all meaning to the modern person, even though
our system depends upon the concept. That is not necessarily a bad
thing. As Western societies have evolved since the Enlightenment, the
concept of rights has expanded and evolved as well. Today, what we think
of as “our rights” fall into three general areas, civil, political and
social.

For Americans, the concept of civil rights has been tangled up in racial
politics, mostly because of baby boomers nostalgia. As a result, three
generations of Americans have been steeped in the mythology of the Civil
Rights Movement, thinking it only applies to black people. Putting that
aside, we expect equality before the law and due process. The law should
apply to everyone equally and the administration of the law should
follow a transparent and predictable process.

While civil rights are about equality before the law, political rights
are about equality in formulating the law. That means having an equal
shot to participate in the political process which creates the laws.
Equality before the law is not worth a lot if your enemies have the
exclusive right to dictate the law. The real change in the Civil Rights
Movement was in the political realm. Blacks are now fully included in
the nation’s political process.

As civil and political rights have expanded, social rights have
contracted. The right to live your life unmolested by others is
increasingly difficult. It used to be a given that a man had a right to
anonymity. That is just about impossible today. More important, it is
increasingly difficult to hold unorthodox opinions and beliefs. Half a
century ago, people dreamed of a colorblind future, but today, people
dream of not getting fired for posting FBI crime stats on Facebook.

This relentless intrusion on our social rights is in the news on a daily
basis. [This
story](http://www.tampabay.com/news/education/k12/Florida-teacher-hosts-white-nationalist-podcast-HuffPost-reports_166035808)
from Tampa is a representative example. Here is a woman, hounded by
bigots, because she holds unapproved opinions. You can be sure that the
ululating fanatics will be badgering her school system to fire her from
her job. We now live in a society in which thinking things that were
commonly understood a generation ago, is used to ruin a person’s life,
making them a pariah in their own community.

This erosion of social rights is not just in the public sphere. If a
group of people holding unapproved thoughts wants to socialize
privately, the bigots will seek them out and call down the rock throwers
on them. [This
story](https://www.metrotimes.com/news-hits/archives/2018/03/04/we-found-out-where-the-alt-right-is-holding-its-secret-conference-in-metro-detroit)
from Michigan is typical. These people are going to great lengths to
avoid drawing attention to themselves, yet the local progressives are
hunting them down, hoping to prevent them from having a private dinner
together. Iran has more social liberty.

Of course, the war on social rights is just the start. The orchestrated
assault on the [nation’s oldest political rights
organization](https://home.nra.org/) is one example of the effort to
extend the denial of social rights to the denial of political rights.
[The ongoing legal
effort](https://www.citylab.com/equity/2017/10/charlottesville-lawsuit-could-be-a-model-for-keeping-white-supremacists-from-your-town/542760/)
to deny Americans their civil rights, based on their thoughts, is
another aspect to this war on our general liberties. The plaintiffs are
asking the court to create a new legal status for heretics, which denies
them the rights and privileges of citizenship.

Now, the reason Western societies evolved political systems that respect
civil rights and allow for near universal participation in politics is
to reduce political violence. When the working class can organize around
the candidates of their choice, they do not have to stage bread riots.
When minority groups can expect equality before the law, they do not
have to make war on the majority. Participatory democracy, in theory,
gives everyone a stake in the system and a reason to defend it against
subversion.

What is happening today is a unilateral declaration that a growing list
of opinions and ideas are off-limits. Anyone that embraces them, or is
suspected of embracing them, is outside the sphere to which civil,
political and social rights apply. These outside people become fair
game, as they have no legal avenue to seek redress. A person who loses
his job because he agrees with what his grandfathers thought, is quickly
becoming a man without a country.

[In this Tucker Carlson
profile](http://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/tucker-carlson-the-populist-paladin-of-primetime/),
he makes the point that he lives in a great neighborhood with smart
wonderful neighbors. It is America as it was in 1955, so naturally the
people living there are deeply satisfied with their work as a ruling
elite. The reason for that is they have no idea what is happening out in
the hinterlands. They avoid the consequences of their preferred polices.
If hordes of migrants show up in their schools, they will not be so
self-satisfied.

The same logic applies to what is happening in this social war being
waged against political dissidents. The people hounding schoolteachers
out of their jobs can feel self-satisfied, because they get to avoid the
same treatment. The people harassing companies to break ties with the
heretics, have no skin in the game, so they are free to overindulge in
righteous indignation. At some point, this leads to violence, either
against the victims or by the victims.

That is why the current climate is so dangerous. Nature supplies more
men with nothing to lose than any society can need. A political system
that systematically marginalizes large swaths of young men, telling them
they have no place in the world, is a society begging for political
violence. [Rebecca Klein of the Huffington
Post](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/florida-public-school-teacher-white-nationalist-podcast_us_5a99ae32e4b089ec353a1fba)
may be feeling smug, for having “outed” a bad thinker, but she is not
going to be so smug when her Prius blows up when she tries to start it.

During the Civil Rights Movement, there came a point where the people in
charge faced a choice. They could let reasonable men on both sides find
an accommodation, or they could let the unreasonable men on both sides
fight it out. Today, the people in charge have that same choice. They
can put their unreasonable people on a leash and deal honestly with the
reasonable people in dissent, or they can continue to wage this social
war and invite the war into their streets and their neighborhoods.

This will not end well.
