---
title: "Modern Genocide"
date: "2018-11-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-11-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15549"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15549"
---

If you conquer a people and wish to eliminate them, the classic way is
to kill all the men and marry the women off to your males or sell them
off into slavery. This was the favorite way of solving tribal conflict
in ancient times. Alternatively, you could just slaughter everyone you
found, which was another way to eliminate problem populations in the
ancient world. This was fine for small populations, but it usually
included driving off a large portion of the defeated population, as mass
murder is difficult to execute.

An alternative to mass murder is to do something a bit more subtle,
something the English employed at times on their island. Instead of
slaughter, they would simply ban the cultural expression of the
conquered tribe. People want their descendants to remember them, and
they can only do that through language and culture. If you ban that
language and culture, you erase the memories of the people and their
connection to their past. This leaves them with nothing to fight for and
no reason to fight you. [More on that
here](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14147).

In modern America, we see that happening as America’s alien ruling class
works to solve the problem of numbers by flooding the country with
foreigners, pitting groups of whites against one another and replacing
white culture with garbage culture. The latter effort has been with us
since the 1960’s, when black ghetto culture was sacralized by Hollywood
and the media. Today, blacks are treated as objects of worship. Whenever
a black gets upset, a pogrom is launched against whites in the name of
anti-racism.

The old way of pretending that non-whites could function in a white
society was to recreate the white shows, but with a black cast. The
Jeffersons were a black version of All in The Family. The point of the
gag was not to replace whites, but to supplement them with the newly
included blacks. The audience was expected to see that blacks could do
all the same stuff whites did, in terms of functioning in society. That
still maintained their black identity, but fit it into the greater
culture, alongside the white culture it emulated.

The new weapon in the culture war on whites is to erase whites from the
past entirely, as if white people are the alien visitors and the
foreigners were always here. The Cheddar Man hoax is an explicit
example. Recasting King Arthur as an African is another example of
blackening the past. Television shows from the past, which stared whites
are being recast to exclude whites. The show Magnum P.I. no longer has
white men in it, instead using a Latino, who presumably swam over the
Rio Grande into Hawaii somehow.

The point of these efforts is to erase history, by retelling it in a
million small ways to exclude whites. It is easy to write-off television
as gutter culture, which is certainly true, but the war on whitey is a
total war. Our alien elite is now taking the very basics of white
America and vulgarizing them in such a way as to make them alien to us.
Nothing says “white America” like Norman Rockwell so those images are
now being [turned into propaganda
posters](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/08/arts/norman-rockwell-freedom.html)
for degeneracy and white genocide. That is the right word for it.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Vulgarians.jpg"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-15552" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 1590px) 100vw, 1590px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Vulgarians.jpg 1590w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Vulgarians-233x300.jpg 233w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Vulgarians-768x989.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Vulgarians-795x1024.jpg 795w"
width="1590" height="2048" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Vulgarians.jpg)

The alt-right boys get grief for throwing that phrase around, but this
is exactly what is happening. The culture war today is about the alien
over-class otherizing white males, divorcing them from their past and
pitting them against white females, who are encouraged at every turn to
support Team Brown. Rather than kill all the males, as conquerors did in
the ancient world, the modern conqueror un-persons the males, cutting
them off from their past, their present and their future, by making them
strangers to their own women.

It is tempting to excuse this stuff, as you see with [older commentators
like Steve
Sailer](http://www.unz.com/isteve/its-not-cultural-appropriation-when-the-good-people-do-it/),
who still cling to the hope that this can be peacefully resolved.
Chuckling into your sleeve about it being an example of “cultural
appropriation”, turning the language back on the Left, probably feels
comforting, but it is sadly mistaken. It is not harmless agitation. The
current American ruling elite does not simply hate old white America.
They are defined by their hatred of white people. It is literally who
they are why they exist.

There can be no reconciliation with people who are trying to murder you.
There can be no peace with people who repeatedly say there can be no
peace. This is the ultimate red pill, as the cool kids put it. The
Armenians could not believe the Turks would murder them, even as the
Turks were murdering them. Armenian leaders were sure there was some way
to resolve the problem. The lesson of history is you either fight to the
last man or you submit as the last man. There is no peaceful solution to
genocide.
