---
title: "Modest Proposals"
date: "2018-08-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14720"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14720"
---

The paleo-conservative thinker, Sam Francis, introduced the term
“anarcho-tyranny” into the dissident vocabulary. [He
defined](https://www.unz.com/print/Chronicles-1994jul-00014/) it as “we
refuse to control real criminals (that’s the anarchy), so we control the
innocent (that’s the tyranny).” For example, the streets are littered
with speed cameras, red-light cameras and other surveillance equipment
to tax motorists. On the other hand, if your car is stolen, the cops
cannot be bothered to look for it and you must hope the insurance
company is generous.

Francis focused on crime, but we see it everywhere. Because it has crept
up slowly on us, the chaos of our age just feels normal, but so does the
shrinking freedom of the surveillance state. A way to see this is to
think about the small, relatively easy to impose rules our government
could do now, that would make life better. Yet, these modest proposals
are never mentioned, much less debated. In fact, the very idea of the
state imposing quality of life measures is outrageous.

For example, the scourge of mobile phones is obvious to everyone. We
have people walking into traffic while texting. Every summer, there are
stories of people coming to harm as they try to take a selfie. Even if
those are rare exceptions, driving has become a stressful adventure,
because of drivers talking and texting. Spend time around the imperial
capital and you come to hate the cell phone. This is an easily remedied
problem that the government could address tomorrow.

For example, the Feds could tell mobile phone makers that their devices
must shut off when they detect movement. Cars with media centers have
this feature, so drivers are not fiddling with the thing while driving.
If mobile phones were so equipped, the number of drivers smashing into
one another over texting would drop to zero. Idiots and teenagers would
hate this, but so what? There’s never a need for a human to talk or text
while driving. If you need to talk, pull over and have your
conversation.

The assault on privacy by tech companies could be also addressed. Your
picture, your name, your financial information, all the stuff that
defines you is yours. It should be treated like any other property.
Google is not allowed to build a surveillance point on your front lawn.
Why are they allowed to spy on you and sell your information to the
highest bidder? A law that requires written permission to possess and
distribute private information would put an end to the abuse of privacy.

In case you think this is impossible, keep in mind it used to exist.
Credit bureaus used to need permission to release your credit history.
One of the things you signed in the loan process was a form giving the
lender the right to pull your credit report and call on your references.
The same is true of employers. The application process included you
giving them permission to call former employers. Simply restoring a
basic of civil society – property rights – would solve many problems.

To get a sense of just how far we have gone down the road to serfdom,
ask a normie friend about such a proposal. Ask them if the government
should require Facebook to get your written permission to use your data.
The right leaning normie will recoil in horror at the state doing
anything. The left leaning normie will most likely give you a blank
look, as they are unable to process the concept of privacy. The very
idea of you owning you is now alien to most Americans.

On the other hand, the idea of transparency among the ruling class has
become an artifact of a bygone age. Around the imperial capital are
thousands of not-for-profit operations that are financed by rich people.
You can look up some basic information about them, but you can rarely
find out who pays the bills. Take, for example, [The Lawyers’ Committee
for Civil Rights](https://lawyerscommittee.org/). This group harasses
white people and is run by a white-hating woman named [Kristen
Clarke](https://twitter.com/kristenclarkejd). Who pays for this?

Politics is now a clash between these types of groups financed by
shadowy characters that none of us see. Instead, we see trained actors
as spokesman for these front groups that essentially operate as money
laundering operations. Because the billionaire class is unable to hire
politicians directly, they funnel their bribes through non-profits.
[Cliff Asness](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cliff_Asness) gets to [pay
Jonah
Goldberg](http://www.aei.org/press/press-release-aei-fellow-jonah-goldberg-named-inaugural-holder-of-the-asness-chair-in-applied-liberty/)
to be his mouthpiece and he gets a tax break. He’s not just a member of
the over-class. He’s a philanthropist!

Cliff Asness may be a civic minded patriot, but the only reason we can
know his name is he chooses to let us know it. He could just as easily
have made the gift anonymously or under some other name. Unless you are
into dissident politics, you would never know that every utterance of
Jonah Goldberg is paid for by some billionaire with interests that may
or may not be your interests. Every nickel that comes into a
not-for-profit should be public information, so we can know who is
paying the paid actors.

The point is, there are probably a hundred small things that could be
done today to significantly improve life in America, for the citizens of
America. The increasing shrillness of public debate is closely linked to
the lawlessness of modern life. There’s a reason the state is incapable
of even small reform. It goes back to what Sam Francis observed with
crime. The class-consciousness of the managerial class is the same
phenomenon that we see with public bureaucracy.
