---
title: "The Tectonic Paradox"
date: "2018-01-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - HBD
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12543"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12543"
---

On my morning run, the local temperature read -3° F. That is an
unusually low temperature for this part of the world, but not
unprecedented. Modern times makes extremely cold weather not much more
than a curiosity. Everyone has shelter and plenty of heat. Even the poor
have HVAC in their homes and plenty of resources to get their energy
bill paid for by others. The local bums had to be rounded up, but there
are shelters for them as well.

Not long ago, extreme cold resulted in a lot of death and damage. A
hundred years ago, deaths from cold were common in the northern parts of
the world. Some of it was due to disease spreading quickly among people
huddled together indoors. There was also the poor nutrition that came
from not enough food in the winter months. Even so, people did not have
what we have now to deal with the cold, so it was common for people to
die when a serious cold snap hit the region.

Go back further and the problem gets even more perilous. A thousand
years ago, humans living in extremely cold areas were faced with unique
challenges. This required long term planning in order to have enough
food, heat and shelter for the winter. It also required a different type
of cooperation. Specialization increases productivity so a people facing
long winters would be more dependent on one another. Many hands make a
light load, but many different skills make it even lighter.

It is generally accepted that humans migrated out of Africa about 60,000
as genetically modern humans. Most likely this meant following a path
along the Red Sea and then into Asia and Europe. As the ice sheets
receded, humans followed them north to settle into northern Europe and
Asia. When the ice sheets began to expand again, these more adaptable
and resourceful people moved south, conquering and displacing the people
to their south. These people became the stock of settled civilization.

Most of this is speculative, but genetics is slowly filling in a lot of
blanks. The implication has always been that harsh environment selected
for more resourceful people, who figured out large scale cooperation,
burden sharing and so forth. That sounds good until you consider that
settled societies did not first start in the north. They began in the
mild climates of the Middle East. The data says that the first settled
farming communities were in Mesopotamia, which is why it is called the
cradle of civilization.

Further, when the Egyptians were building the pyramids, the people in
the British Isles were building Stonehenge. That is an interesting
structure, but it was built by people who were barbarians compared to
the people of Egypt. When the Sumerians were writing down things on clay
tablets, Europe was lightly populated by people, who had just barely
mastered stone tools. Even into the late Roman Empire, the tribes of
Europe were hard pressed to do much more than organize a primitive
village.

Of course, all of this has changed. A great puzzle to the blank slate
crowd is why it is Europeans rocketed ahead of the rest of the world, in
terms of technology and organizational might, starting around the late
Middle Ages. When Europeans arrived in Africa, they found a people, who
had yet to master the wheel. The ancient civilizations of the Middle and
Near East had fallen into squalor. In the New World, the Incas were
about where the Egyptians had gotten 5,000 years prior.

It is widely understood that modern humans, homo sapiens, emerged from
the *speciation* phase of sapient humans in Africa about 100,000 years
ago. Genetics support this conclusion and it provides details in support
of the dispersal. Not only are all modern humans walking around today
descended from those original humans, but a baby born today is not
vastly different genetically from humans of 100,000 years ago, at least
in terms of physiology.

The archaeological record, what there is at least, says that humans
dispersed around the world over the next 50,000 years without much
change in behavior. Then seemingly all of a sudden, humans began to
change culturally. The first agriculture appears in Mesopotamia and soon
after large scale settled societies. New technologies spread in fits and
starts as people figured out how to contend with and modify their
natural environments. This is the *tectonic* phase.

[The sapient
paradox](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2606703/) is the
puzzle as to why it took so long for humans to go from hunter-gathers to
settled people. The genetic evidence and lots of wishful thinking say
that people in Africa 50,000 years ago were not much different from
people 10,000 years ago in the Tigris River area. Why did the people in
Mesopotamia figure out how to plan and organize large agrarian
societies, while the people in Europe were still living off the land in
small tribes? Why did take so long?

The tectonic paradox is the puzzle as to why modern Africans were never
able to master the wheel or build a structure taller than a man. When
Europeans were conquering the globe, the people in sub-Saharan Africa
had yet to adopt a written language. At the same time, how is it that
the English, who were no more advanced than Arabs in 1066, were the ones
to lead the Industrial Revolution? The great gap  between the big races
is recent and unmistakable.

Genetics is starting to unriddle this great puzzle. Even though the
genetic difference between human groups is tiny, it turns out that small
difference can have huge downstream consequences, particularly with
regards to cultural evolution. The high risk environment of northern
Europeans, for example, is most likely the root of the wide variety of
hair and eye colors that do not appear anywhere else. A small difference
results in people who look like a different species.

What this means is that human evolution is not just recent and local,
but the behavior differences between populations is not amenable to
social engineering, at least not in the short term. The Arabs flowing
into Europe are going there because like all mammals, they seek safety
and easy access to food and shelter. They are not Germans, however, and
no amount of proselytizing will change Mother Nature’s mind on the
subject.

We may not know exactly why people are different, but we know they are
and there is no changing it. Short of making great leaps in genetic
engineering, the differences in the races are as permanent as anything
in this world. That means the cultural collision that arises when
different people are forced together is not changing. People used to
know this and accept. Good fences make good neighbors. What has changed
is our betters no longer accept Mother nature’s word for it.
