---
title: "Major Waste"
date: "2018-01-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12562"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12562"
---

Way back in the tyranny of Bush the Minor, I read a funny article in one
of the news magazines, while waiting for a haircut. This was in the
early days of his administration when the accounting scandals hit and
the tech bubble burst tanked the economy. The liberal media was sure it
was all the result of the gods being angry over Bush getting elected
over Gore, so they filled their pages with horror stories about the
economy. The story was a tale of woe about Ivy League grads unable to
find work.

The one example I always remember was about a girl who had graduated
from Harvard and was unable to find a job she deserved. Instead, she was
reduced to waiting tables (gasp!) and doing temp work in offices. The
story went through her struggles to get interviews and her process of
considering alternative career options. Finally, she landed a job as a
social worker for the city. The piece wrapped up with a quick summary of
her story and it was revealed that she had majored in folklore at
Harvard.

Whenever the topic of college majors comes up, I always think of that
story. I have made a hobby of rooting around in the course catalogs of
liberal arts colleges, looking for bizarre classes and majors. Nothing
so far has topped the Harvard [Folklore and Mythology
degree](https://folkmyth.fas.harvard.edu/). Our colleges are full of
lunatics doing useless work, but there is some effort to dress it up as
legitimate academic work. There is no way to dress up a major in
folklore. Exactly no one has ever said in an emergency, “We need a
folklorist!”

Anyway, [this
post](https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2018/01/07/majors-ii/) on Greg
Cochran’s site brought all that to mind. His post links to [this cool
graphic](https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2014/05/09/310114739/whats-your-major-four-decades-of-college-degrees-in-1-graph)
put together by NPR displaying the majors over time, relative to other
majors and college graduates as a whole. It is one of those things that
could be done with charts or traditional graphs, but it is a lot more
fun hovering over that thing. I learned that there is such a thing as a
fitness major, which sounds a lot like gym, but my bet is it has lots of
“queering” and race stuff to it. Pointless majors tend to go hard for
the crazy.

Another interesting tidbit is the fact that zoology has just about
disappeared as a college major. It looks like the annual numbers are in
the hundreds now. Maybe colleges have re-branded it as something cooler.
Biology has not had a ton of growth over the last few decades either, so
maybe not. It does suggest that young people no longer have an interest
in the natural world. My guess is the number of young people
experiencing the natural world is at an all-time low. Kids are not into
hunting, fishing or farming.

The volume of business majors is the eye opener. Greg asked in his post
what readers thought was the least valuable degree. That is a loaded
question, but objectively business has to be on the list. Most of the
course work is stuff you never need in the business world. Accounting
courses are useful, but few kids retain any of it. The math courses
should be helpful, but many business majors never take more than the
minimum of math required for graduation. [The SAT scores for business
majors](http://www.businessinsider.com/heres-the-average-sat-score-for-every-college-major-2014-10)
explain the popularity.

The truth is college is a major waste of time and money for most of the
students. Only 59% of students graduate from college in six years. Some
fraction of the rest goes back and get their credential, but by that
point it has lost its market value. This assumes it has a market value.
An Ivy League diploma still carries weight. A Stanford degree opens
secret doors that most do not know exist, but in the case of the elite,
it is not the degree so much as the connections. Mixing with tomorrow’s
rulers is the real value of the degree.

Outside of STEM fields, it is hard to judge the value of a college
degree. The constant refrain from the college industrial complex is that
college graduates earn eleventy billion more in their lifetime, compared
to non-graduates. There is a lot of fun with numbers in those studies.
People with “some college” tend to earn about the same as people with
four-year degrees, suggesting IQ is the real issue here. If you are
bright enough to get into college, you are as bright as the people who
get out of college with a degree.

The only way to measure the value of a diploma is on a case by case
situation. If your goal is to be an engineer, then you need the paper.
On the other hand, if you are walking out of college with $80,000 in
debt, by the time you pay off the loans, the real cost is 30% more in
interest and opportunity cost. Your lifetime earnings probably justify
that initial investment. On the other hand, if your goal is to be a
medieval folklorist, you are probably better off playing a lot of
Dungeons & Dragons or World of Warcraft.

All that aside, the college rackets are another example of how social
trust has declined in America over the generations. There’s little doubt
now that colleges prey on the angst of middle-class families. The
declining value of a college diploma corresponds with the skyrocketing
cost of getting it. It is a bust out, the sort of thing predators do to
people they view as strangers. Just as the college campus is a
collection of grifters pretending to be colleagues and academics,
America is a land of strangers pretending to be citizens.

 
