---
title: "After Conservatism"
date: "2018-12-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15715"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15715"
---

National Review was founded in 1955 by Bill Buckley and, until the last
few years, it has been the prestige publication of American
conservatism. The late 50’s is a good starting point for the movement
that has been the alternative to progressivism. Buckley was greatly
influenced by Russel Kirk, so the magazine took on progressivism, but
also the libertarianism of Ayn Rand and the failures of previous efforts
to create a legitimate conservatism in the United States. The goal was
to create a new right.

Reading [the take down of Ayn Rand by Whittaker
Chambers](https://www.nationalreview.com/2005/01/big-sister-watching-you-whittaker-chambers/)
all these years later, it is easy to see how things have changed. In the
early days of Buckley conservatism, it was understood by people claiming
to be on the right that libertarianism suffered from the same
materialism as Marxism. Rand loved ideology so much that there was no
room in her cold heart for humanity. Today, the so-called right is
indistinguishable from the libertarianism of today. The editor of
National Review actually [celebrates
it](https://www.amazon.com/Conservatarian-Manifesto-Libertarians-Conservatives-Rights/dp/0804139741).

It has become a cliche of sorts that what passes for conservatism today
is just yesterday’s liberal fads. The social media gag “the conservative
case for \[fill in name of liberal degeneracy\]” stopped being funny
because it became common on the pages of National Review. Here they make
the [conservative case for homosexual
marriage](https://www.nationalreview.com/2015/05/yes-same-sex-marriage-about-equality-courts-should-not-decide/)
and here they make the case for
[transgenderism](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/05/transgenderism-compromise-necessary-to-preserve-social-order/).
Of course, one of the leaders of what passes for conservatism these days
is [a man who walks around dressed as a
woman](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/josh-rogin/wp/2018/10/12/giselle-donnelly-can-finally-be-herself/?utm_term=.82ce2b015ee5).

When confronted by the ridiculous spectacle that is Conservative Inc.,
it is tempting to fall into the same trap as Muslims, Marxists, and
libertarians, when they confront the lunacy of their cults. Whenever a
Muslim explodes in public, the response is, “well, that’s not the real
Islam.” In the Cold War, Marxists professors would always say that
Bolshevism was a mongrel and defective form of Marxism. Of course,
libertarians spend all their time wheeling around those goal posts on
roller skates that define libertarianism.

The fact is the conservatism of Bill Buckley was always defective. It
was a continuation of what Robert Louis Dabney observed a century ago
about Northern Conservatism. Russell Kirk saw conservatism as a
disposition, the lack of ideology. What Buckley conservatism was, in
fact, was a pose. The range of allowable opinion on the left, however,
allowed for the existence of a reformist element that drew on the old
right, as well as Western traditionalism. The managerial state had not
yet snuffed out liberalism.

A couple decades ago, the great paleocon academic Paul Gottfried noted
that [the managerial state had killed
liberalism](https://www.amazon.com/After-Liberalism-Democracy-Managerial-State/dp/0691089825).
By liberalism, he meant the philosophical view that distributed powers
and bourgeois moral standards worked to restrain the state and protect
civil society. The system of governance refined in the 19th century was
being wiped away and something new would replace it. Today, what passes
for the left and the right both agree to call it neoliberalism and [both
sides strongly embrace
it](https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/11/neoliberalism-after-2001-mixed-record-reform-needed/).

In that Fred Bauer post, you see that Buckley conservatives are on the
last leg of the journey into the sun. They no longer see a reason to
oppose the left, because the left disappeared into the sun
of neoliberalism a long time ago. As has been its habit since birth, the
conservatism of Bill Buckley follows progressivism around like a puppy.
Its last act on the stage will be fusing itself permanently to what was
once called the left to form the bipartisan fusion ideology of the
American managerial state.

Paul Gottfried [coined the
phrase](https://www.takimag.com/article/the_decline_and_rise_of_the_alternative_right/#axzz5TWrt0Ptw)
“alternative Right” in his speech at the Mencken conference, when
discussing what happened to the paleocons. Richard Spencer appropriated
the idea and started the alt-right, but it was never a coherent
movement, nor did it have anything resembling an intellectual
foundation. It was, at best, a grab bag of ideas plucked from various
subcultures in the larger umma of the dissident right. As a result, it
became a cult of personality and then fizzled out entirely.

It is easy to lay the [blame for the alt-right at the feet of Richard
Spencer](https://www.counter-currents.com/2018/10/what-is-the-alternative-right-part-1/),
but the real problem is something you can pick up in Gottfried’s speech
at Mencken. Paleos never fully grasped the reality of Buckley-style
conservatism. Paul remains puzzled by how easy it was for the
neoconservatives to overrun the conservative institutions. The reason,
of course, was that those institutions were built on the same manor as
the progressive institutions. Conservative institutions were just
outhouses for the main house.

If there is to be a genuine alternative to the prevailing orthodoxy, the
first task is to accept a central truth of the managerial state. That
is, it must approach an intellectual and moral singularity to exist.
While it will never reach the point where all opinion is assimilated,
the allowable differences are now so small they cannot be seen by the
naked eye. A system that evolved out the principle of universal truth,
must evolve a morality that is intolerant of anything that challenges
it. There can be no room for an alternative.

That means that whatever comes after conservatism must first sink roots
outside the neoliberal order and maybe even outside the Enlightenment.
It cannot be a reaction to neoliberalism, as that implies dependency.
The obvious implication is that what comes after conservatism, in the
framework of the American right, is nothing. That line of discovery and
inquiry has reached a dead end. It is an intellectual tradition with no
future and no shadow. What comes next must be a clean break from
northern conservatism.
