---
title: "Fighting Back"
date: "2018-07-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14406"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14406"
---

One of the basic errors the so-called conservatives made when dealing
with their Progressive betters is to assume the Left has a rational
plan. The Buckleyites always started from the assumption that there was
some logical plan behind the liberal schemes, so they spent a lot of
time trying to abductively arrive at the motivation. The Right spent
most of their time making well-reasoned arguments against what they
assumed was the true motivation of the Left. The result was the Left won
every battle in the culture war.

[This
post](https://www.mindingthecampus.org/2018/07/02/the-coming-implosion-after-diversitys-victory/)
from an English professor at Emory University about the logical ends of
diversity is a rare example of someone noticing the flaw in this
approach. He starts by doing what no one on the conventional Right
dares, and that is admit defeat.

*Conservatives, libertarians, traditionalists, and classical liberals
need to get clear on something: the ideological contests are fading.
What Irving Kristol famously said in his 2001 Bradley Lecture, “We in
America fought a culture war, and we \[conservatives\] lost,” applies
well to higher education. Conservatives fought wars over
multiculturalism, Western Civilization, affirmative action, the Academic
Bill of Rights, and political bias in hiring, and we lost every time.
The educators have no reason to debate ideas, much less ideology. None
of those old issues are up for discussion.*

*(It should be said that Kristol noted that conservatives still had some
influence in one theater of American life, religion, but that exemption
is irrelevant to the 21st-century campus.)*

*You can tell ideology is a settled matter by the way in which faculty
and administrators handle the core terms—diversity, inclusion. No moral
or conceptual examination of those terms ever takes place. Liberals and
leftists mouth them without even pondering what they mean save for the
simple-minded aspiration of “more women in science” or “more blacks
among the leadership.” The only rejoinder conservatives have is, “What
about the diversity of thought and opinion?” to which the educators
respond, “Oh, yes, that’s good, too,” then proceed on what they were
thinking before. When it comes to diversity, everyone’s a bureaucrat.*

He then points out the inherent irrationality of the diversity rackets,
at least on the college campus.

*Now, diversity means just that: getting more underrepresented people in
place. That’s all. The campus managers don’t think about what will
happen then. Diversity among the personnel—that is, more proportionate
representation of all “underserved” identities—is an end in itself. If
you asked a dean what diversity is for, what purpose it serves, he
wouldn’t have an immediate answer. He spends so much time in a habitat
of tautology (“diversity is good for . . . diversity”) that the very
question stumps him until he remembers blather from the Old Times about
diverse perspectives and educational benefits and repeats it like a
ventriloquist’s dummy. But don’t try pressing him on it. He doesn’t want
to talk about it. The self-evident good of diversity has long been
established, and he clings to it like a Catholic does his rosary.*

The professor does not have the courage to point out the obvious.
Replacing capable white people in college positions with non-whites,
reduces the quality of the staff. It is not so obvious in the humanities
or social sciences, where much of the work has been nonsense for a long
time. In the STEM fields, it is a recipe for disaster. Any effort to
scale up the diversity rackets popular on campus, to society as a whole,
is a recipe for rolling back a millennium of human progress. Without
white men, there is no modern world.

At the end, the professor suggests an answer whites should use when
asked by a white interviewer about diversity. It is good advice, only if
you know going in you will not be selected because you are white. It
would be fun to point out to the diversity spewing white person that the
best thing they can do for diversity is quit their job. It is, however,
an example of that old habit of the Right. The professor thinks such a
“gotcha” response will result in the great Progressive awakening when
the blindfold will drop from Lefty’s eyes.

It is why the Left in America went from one victory to the next in the
culture war. They never faced an adversary willing to fight them on
their own terms. The American Left has always been a spiritual movement.
Talking a lefty believer out of their beliefs is as rational as talking
a Muslim out of his faith. No one ever argues that the solution to
violent Islam is a well-reasoned argument with facts and examples. Even
the dullest American understands that this is not how religions work. By
definition, faith is not about facts.

American Progressivism grew out of the Puritanism associated with the
founding stock of New England. Reform movements of the 19th century all
had their roots in New England Christianity. Just read the writings of
abolitionists and the Christian foundation is plainly obvious. Then in
the 20th century, [as Norman Podhoretz
explained](https://www.amazon.com/Why-Jews-Liberals-Norman-Podhoretz/dp/0307456250),
Jewish intellectuals embraced Progressivism as their religion. The Left
lost its Christianity, but it remained a spiritual movement that became
more intense, more exotic, and esoteric.

It is an important lesson to learn from the failure of the American
Right, in their 20th century fight with the Left. They lost because they
never understood the enemy. They invested all of their time conjuring an
enemy they could beat with facts and reason, while the Left went about
destroying the enemies they had in their path. It is not a mistake that
a new alternative can afford to make. You do not beat a moral order with
reason. You defeat it by attacking it on moral grounds, while offering
an alternative moral framework.
