---
title: "Anti-Science"
date: "2018-04-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13598"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13598"
---

You can put me down in the “pro-science” column. I think in the main,
science is a good thing for humanity. Life is more than material wealth,
but having better food, better shelter, better communications, and
better medicine is nice. None of those things can happen without men in
labs, amateur and professional, fiddling with the bits of nature, trying
to learn how things tick. It is the constant trial and error of
improvement that has made civilization possible, and it is science that
has made the modern world possible.

That said, people are flawed so their enterprises will be flawed as
well. Science is not an exception to this rule. That is what makes
science different from religion or ideology. Good science is the
constant revisiting of past claims, while religion can never permit it.
You can become a famous scientist by proving that some accepted bit of
science is flawed or simply wrong. Modern technology can lead to the
overturning of fields, which is what we see happening with psychology.
Technology is turning psychology into alchemy.

That’s one important aspect of the <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/how-bad-is-the-governments-science-1523915765"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">replication crisis</a>.

*Half the results published in peer-reviewed scientific journals are
probably wrong. John Ioannidis, now a professor of medicine at Stanford,
made headlines with that claim in 2005. Since then, researchers have
confirmed his skepticism by trying—and often failing—to reproduce many
influential journal articles. Slowly, scientists are internalizing the
lessons of this irreproducibility crisis. But what about government,
which has been making policy for generations without confirming that the
science behind it is valid?*

*The biggest newsmakers in the crisis have involved psychology. Consider
three findings: Striking a “power pose” can improve a person’s hormone
balance and increase tolerance for risk. Invoking a negative stereotype,
such as by telling black test-takers that an exam measures intelligence,
can measurably degrade performance. Playing a sorting game that involves
quickly pairing faces (black or white) with bad and good words (“happy”
or “death”) can reveal “implicit bias” and predict discrimination.*

*All three of these results received massive media attention, but
independent researchers haven’t been able to reproduce any of them
properly. It seems as if there’s no end of “scientific truths” that just
aren’t so. For a 2015 article in Science, independent researchers tried
to replicate 100 prominent psychology studies and succeeded with only
39% of them.*

It is important to understand what is going on here. Science has always
been self-correcting by definition, but it does not prevent the problem
of the Left abusing the truth. Psychology is a good example. In the 20th
century, psychology became part of the theology of the Left, used to
justify their latest crackpot ideas about humanity. The money for
research went into studies that purported to prove some aspects of the
blank slate, rather than challenge these beliefs. It was about
confirmation, rather than discovery.

As a result, the soft sciences are under fire. That is what the
replication crisis is about and why it is a good thing, even though it
opens the door for people who wish to fly the flag of intellectual
authority but lack the cognitive skills to participate in a STEM field.
There are legions of people who will never understand the basics of
genetics, for example, but they want to be an authority on evolution and
human biodiversity. They will point to the replication crisis and claim
that all science is suspect and no better than opinion.

In fairness, the soft sciences are not the only area of “science” taking
a beating in the replication crisis. Chemistry has had problems with
crap papers flying through the peer review process undetected. That is
about the politics of publishing as much as anything, but it should not
happen. Medicine has also come under scrutiny and rightly so. These
quack studies on diet, for example, that populate news sites, do more
harm than good, because they often lead people into [wacko conspiracy
theories like
pawtism](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/canine-corner/201709/can-vaccinations-cause-autism-in-dogs).

This is what [Cofnas gets right in his
review](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10699-015-9421-3) of
the moral and political pressures that undermine and retard the
scientific process. The people in charge are the people sponsoring the
research and paying for the studies. Like everyone in power, they want
confirmation, and they will pay good money for it. As long as humans do
research, there will be humans willing to fake their research to get
grants and tenure. That is the story of climate science thus far. The
“consensus” was money well spent.

Cofnas is wrong to think this is unique to our age. The people in charge
in all ages have had their priorities. A smart guy in the Roman Empire
was wise to apply his skill to practical things, like how to improve
sword making, because that was important. Philosophy was not. In the
Middle Ages, the emergence of science meant navigating around the church
and crown, as both viewed new ideas with concern. The king and his
favorite bishop were more concerned with power than scientific
knowledge.

“Reality is that thing that does not go away when you stop believing in
it” and that is the reality of the replication crisis. The quackery of
the soft sciences eventually runs up against reality. In our age, it is
the reality of genetics that is dismantling the nutty ideas popular with
the prior generations. That is what Cofnas gets wrong. Science is
self-correcting, just not as quickly as you would like. Sometimes it
takes a new technology or simply a generational change, Eventually,
reality returns to right all wrongs.
