---
title: "It’s Complicated"
date: "2018-09-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14949"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14949"
---

Anyone who has been through a change in software platforms for their
company knows that it starts out as a lot of fun, but then turns into
drudgery. Initially, thoughts of all the new stuff and better programs
makes it feel like Christmas. Then the reality of going through every
single business process of the company hits home. You end up re-thinking
vast chunks of the company’s business processes, much of which is
terribly dull, even though it is essential. It is the only way to get it
right and take advantage of the new system.

What you learn from such an ordeal is that the company software system
is the repository of the company rules that define how it exists. Over
time, the rules changed and evolved, and the software was changed to
evolve with the company. There were upgrades and modifications. If the
software is old enough, there were modifications to modifications and
many hands doing the work, many of whom are long gone. More important,
many of the processes were created for reasons no one remembers. It’s
just the way it is done.

The people who like to argue that complex systems cannot evolve from
simple systems have never worked with business software. All complex
business software started as simple software. Over decades, it evolved
into highly complex systems that even the creators don’t fully
understand. Usually, in the case of enterprise systems, there are teams
who specialize in one aspect of the system. They have created interfaces
that the rest of the system uses to pass data or call functions related
to that area of the system.

The reason that systems tend toward increasing complexity is that the
world is not a fixed place. Even small changes can require significant
changes in how a company does business. In a government regulated
industry like food or chemicals, the government is always updating
the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). That means regular changes to the
forms that are printed or the data that must be captured. That, of
course, means regular changes to the company software system. Over time,
those changes add up.

Now, the people maintaining and modifying the software are not rewriting
large swaths of it every time there is a change. They make small
changes, the bare minimum, to keep costs down and get the change done
quickly. That means they take shortcuts, hybridizing other functions and
applying patches to existing code. It does not take long before this
gets out of hand and even small changes require lots of thinking and
planning.

It is good way to think about all human organization. The company that
started out as two people, but grew to one hundred people, is at least a
thousand times more complex than when it started. Obviously, the small
town that grew into a city seems infinitely more complex than when it
started. Even your social circle can suddenly feel wildly complex if
your circle of friends expands to include people outside your initial
peer group. Complexity grows at a rate faster than the growth the
organization. That’s an iron rule of life.

The people working in [artificial intelligence are running into this
same
problem](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/aug/29/coding-algorithms-frankenalgos-program-danger).
Replicating even the most mundane human task requires millions of lines
of complex code. What we take for granted as humans is quite complex.
For the same reason no one person can understand the complexity of their
small town, the creators of AI cannot understand the complexity of their
creations. Algorithms to handle one small task get unwieldy in hurry
once they are interfaced with other algorithms to handle other small
tasks.

This is why the robot future is a lot further away than the futurists
want to believe. The cost of labor to automate a warehouse is a grain of
sand on the beach, compared to the cost and complexity of automating a
highway. Just as important, the cost of maintaining it is orders of
magnitude higher. As every business owner knows, just because something
can be automated, the cost of doing so often outweighs the savings. Put
another way, just because something can be done does not mean there is a
reason to do it.

Putting aside the cost of complexity, systems often become so complex
that they become unpredictable. Even in business systems, which are
simple compared to the software for driving a car, the complexity can
reach a point where no one truly knows what will happen if some change
is implemented. The result is a whole new process for performing quality
control, to make sure the changes do not have some unexpected and
unwanted downstream result. There are now certifications for software
quality control professionals.

This is often why legacy systems are replaced. It’s not the technology,
although that is often a handy excuse. It’s that the old system has so
many patches and mods that no one knows how it works anymore. New
changes result is weird outcomes and costly follow-up changes. As is
true with everything in life, things sometimes get so complicated that
the best answer is to start over. It is why men leave their families and
why people change careers. It’s also why the people stand aside and let
the revolutionaries topple the rulers.

That’s what a revolution is, when you think about it. It’s a lot like
the decision to buy a new software system for the company. It’s not that
what comes next will be better. It’s that the status quo is so
complicated and unpleasant, anything must be better. Of course, just a
new software never turns out as expected, revolutions always turn out to
be a lot more unpleasant than anyone imagined. Instead of firing the
initial consultants, the revolution eats its own, by killing off the
first group of revolutionary leaders.

Even so, it is something to think about as the West struggles to reform
itself. The web of pirates, grifters, reformers and patriots within the
ruling classes of the West has reached a point where no one understands
what’s happening. That’s why official Washington remains in a state of
emergency over Trump. It’s why the European ruling class is worried that
[they may be too lazy to fight their own
people](https://apnews.com/cc4abf14eb6b4ef88d8bbfe9aab1d4b3). Everyone
knows that the system is not working, but no one has any idea how to fix
and everyone is afraid to touch it.

It might be time for a new system.
