---
title: "An Empire of Midgets"
date: "2018-06-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14041"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14041"
---

Way back in the olden thymes, conservatives in Washington would argue
with liberals about the realities of Federal spending and regulation.
Liberals argued that if you spent more, people had more, while
conservatives would point out that the money had to come from someone,
as the government had no money, other than what it taxed. Similarly,
when Washington put rules on business, conservatives argued, businesses
would figure out ways around them, often making things worse than if
there were no regulations.

While it was all for show, there was an important truth in the critique
of liberals by conservatives. Not only are there trade-offs to all
government policy, but every change also sets off a series of reactions
to those changes. Pass a regulation and the mere act of passing it
changes the conditions you are attempting to regulate. As businesspeople
will tell you, even observing or measuring something can change people’s
conduct. People act differently when they are watched. Liberals have
never understood this basic truth.

The “war on hate” being waged by the Left is another one of those times
where their extreme simple-mindedness is undermining the alleged point
of their efforts. The lawsuit against Andrew Anglin by the terrorist
groups SPLC has no basis in law, but it goes forward anyway. Similarly,
the lawsuit by billionaire lesbian, Roberta Kaplan, against the Unite
the Right people is another effort to pervert the law. These cases are
nonsense, and the lawyers should be censured. They undermine the rule of
law by making it arbitrary.

That is the theme of all of the Left’s recent efforts to shut down their
critics. Take a look at the women claiming to have been “sexually
assaulted” by famous men. In some cases, rare cases, the facts support
the charge. In most cases, the facts suggest boorish behavior common to
men since the dawn of time. In other words, the very meaning of the
words used to govern male-female relations are losing their meaning.
Instead of appeals to reason, these cases turn on appeals to mob rule
played out in the media.

You see the same thing playing out in the workplace. That poor Starbucks
employee who called the cops on two troublemakers lost his job and had
to worry about his safety, for following the rules. [These bakery
employees](http://abcstlouis.com/news/nation-world/oregon-bakery-fires-employees-for-denying-black-woman-service-after-closing)
are also fired because they did the prudent thing and refused to open up
the shop after closing. Unbeknownst to them, there was an unwritten rule
regarding blacks in the store’s policies. If they had opened the store
and the black had robbed the place, they would have been fired for that
too.

In the quest for social justice, the Left is obliterating all of the
rules, even the rules that govern the language. Instead of having
objective standards like an employee handbook or the courts, the rules
are arbitrary and in a state of flux. In the short term, this works for
them because the final arbiters are people from the cult. Corporate
elites and the legal system are brimming with Progressive loons. The
normal people who are the victims have yet to figure it out, so they
keep acting as if the rules still apply as written.

This is, of course, an inevitable result of
[proportionalism](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=8318). This is where
the costs of violating laws and principles are weighed against the
perceived benefits from violating those laws and principles. For
instance, legal discrimination is wrong as a principle, but quotas and
set asides allegedly have benefits that are too valuable to pass up, so
the elite demands active racism in hiring. It is the belief that the
smart people in charge can extract all the benefits of taking shortcuts,
without suffering any consequences for it.

This depends on everyone else not changing their behavior when the rules
no longer have meaning. That is obviously not happening. The rise of
white identity politics is the direct result of this growing awareness.
Whites are slowly figuring out that the prohibitions against identity
politics only apply to them, so they are joining the party. Steve
Sailer’s famous war on noticing only works if people do not notice. Once
they do, then it becomes completely counterproductive. Political
correctness is now driving white identity politics.

What the Left is doing with their lurch into lawlessness is destroying
the conditions that make it possible for them to dominate. The
short-term benefit of having angry broads rampaging through the
corporate suites has the long-term cost of undermining everyone’s
respect for the rules. The same is true of lawfare projects. Their
success undermines the public’s respect for the law. The Left has been
able to dominate because they slyly played by one set of rules, while
everyone was encouraged to play by a another set of rules.

It is funny in a way. The managerial class has embraced multiculturalism
as a religion, while claiming to have advanced beyond the “rule by man”
sorts of governance that have been the rule since forever. Yet, in order
to make multiculturalism work, the managerial class has to transform
itself into the bureaucratic elite of every empire that existed on
earth. That is, in order to keep all the tribes, cults and clans from
killing one another, the people in charge have to administer ad hoc
rules and arbitrary justice to keep the peace.

The trouble with this is the empire had the authority of the emperor and
usually an aristocratic class. Even today, it is hard not to be
impressed by the image of a Roman Emperor or French monarch. When the
guys making stuff up as they go along live in castles and have a retinue
of cool looking knights, it is easy to go along with the arbitrariness.
When the people in charge have the majesty of a postal clerk, even the
lowest orders think they can do better. Ours is becoming an empire ruled
by midgets.
