---
title: "Reality Returns"
date: "2018-03-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13070"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13070"
---

[All of the usual
suspects](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/02/us/politics/trump-tariffs-steel-aluminum.html)
are freaking out over Trump’s decision to impose tariffs on steel and
aluminum. <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2017/07/made-in-america/534339/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Most of it is by silly people</a>. Some
of it is simply [the
innumerate](https://www.nationalreview.com/blog/g-file/trump-steel-aluminum-tariffs-elitism-not-populism/)
throwing yet another tantrum about the bad man who vexes them. Some of
the hysteria is due to the fact that people in the chattering classes
were sure they had talked this bit of reality into going away for good.
Reality, however, is that thing that does not go away when you stop
believing in it. The reality of trade is now back.

The amusing thing about trade debates among the chattering classes is
that they never bother to mention the trade-offs that come with trade
policy. Trade is like any other public policy. It is all about
trade-offs. Our rulers, however, were sure they had sacralized their
preferred set of trade-offs a long time ago. It turns out that the only
people on whom this worked were the innumerate numskulls in the press.
The rest of us remain skeptical about “free trade.”

Trade between countries is a net benefit to both countries. Open trade
with Canada means they can sell more beaver hats and hockey sticks to
Americans, thus making the typical Canadian richer. Similarly, it means
Americans can sell more apple pies and boomsticks to Canadians, thus
making the typical American richer. In reality, there will be Canadians
who suffer from free trade with America and Americans who also suffer in
the exchange. That is how the world works.

While the hockey playing folks of northern Virginia will benefit from
cheap hockey sticks from Canada, the suddenly unemployed hockey stick
makers in Minnesota are the ones paying the price for it. Similarly, the
apple growers of Canada get stuck with the bill for the suddenly cheap
apple products in Toronto. The hidden cost of free trade is a lot of
people you do not know losing their jobs. When you are the guy getting
the pink slip, the cost is not hidden and that has a social cost, as
well.

Now, trade can be beneficial to both countries in that it promotes
efficiency. The lazy and unscrupulous hockey stick makers in Maine,
suddenly have to compete with the crafty canucks. This means better
hockey sticks, but also less waste. Protectionism, like all public
polices, comes with a cost too. That cost is more often than not carried
by the consumer. Worse yet, it often promotes the sorts of corruption of
public officials that erodes public trust in institutions.

That is why the ruling class is in a panic over the Trump trade
policies. It is not about the cost of steel and aluminum. It is not
about the possibility of retaliation. The real fear here is that Trump
is re-opening the debate about trade. It means all of these trade-offs
that come with trade between nations will have to be discussed. The
billionaire class that has benefited from the current set of polices, is
in no mood to defend their fiefs from the rabble. So, [in waddles the
clown
army](https://www.nationalreview.com/blog/corner/trump-steel-tariffs-disrupt-construction-industry/).

The current trade regime, has proven to be the boondoggle critics like
Pat Buchanan warned about 30 years ago. Open trade with Canada, an
English-speaking first world country, is mostly beneficial. Trade with
Mexico, a third world narco-state that now operates as a pirate’s cove,
has been a disaster. NAFTA has made Mexico a massive loophole in
American labor, tax, environmental and trade policy. A loophole
ruthlessly exploited by alien predators like China.

The current trade regime is also at the heart of the cosmopolitan
globalism that seeks to reduce nations to a fiction and people to
economic inputs. This neoliberal orthodoxy has eroded social capital to
the point where the white middle class is nearing collapse. It is not
just America. The collapsing fertility rates in the Occident are part of
the overall cultural collapse going in the West. Slapping tariffs on
Chinese steel is not going to arrest this trend, but it does open the
door a debate about it.

That is the reality our betters would like to avoid. What defines France
is the shared character and shared heritage of the people we call
French. What defines a people is not the cost of goods or the price of
labor. What defines a people is what they love together and what they
hate together. It is the collection of tastes and inclinations, no
different than family traditions, which have been cultivated and passed
down from one generation to the next.

Even putting the cultural arguments aside, global capitalism erodes the
civic institutions that hold society together. Instead of companies
respecting the laws of host nations and working to support the welfare
of the people of that nation, business is encouraged to cruise the world
looking for convenient ports. There is a word for this type of work. It
is called piracy. Global firms flit from port to port, with no interest
other than the short term gain to be made at that stop. Globalism is
rule by pirates.

That is the reason for the panic in the media. To question “free trade”
is to question the arrangements that keeps the current regime in place.
It may seem like a small thing, tariffs on steel, but it is the sort of
thing that can unravel the entire project, because it legitimizes the
sorts of questions that threaten the regime. To his credit, Trump seems
to get this, which is why he has pressed ahead with this. He is flipping
over an important table in this fight.
