---
title: "The Fate Of The NeoCons"
date: "2018-02-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12900"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12900"
---

The term “neocon” has been a fixture of political debates in America for
the last 40 years, being both an epithet, sobriquet and honorific. In
the 80’s, a white person in the commentariat using the term was doing so
as a stand in for “hawkish liberal Jews” and he would most likely be
called an anti-Semite. It became important to neocons for people not to
notice they were all liberal Jews. After the Cold War, Progressives
started attacking the neocons, so the squealing about antisemitism lost
its potency.

The truth is the original neocons were never conservative. Many were
Trotskyists, but most were just very liberal Jews who wanted to use up
America’s wealth to fight their ancient enemy, the Russian empire.
Otherwise, they embraced the cosmopolitan Progressivism emerging on the
Left. Probably the most generous description of neoconservatives was
that they were anti-communists, who integrated into traditional
conservatism in the effort to prosecute the Cold War. That was the spin,
at least.

The years since the end of the Cold War has revealed them to be
something else. The berserk, preternatural hatred of Russia is now a
major component of neocon arguments, which is why they never shut up
about Putin. After the Cold War, neocons opposed efforts to integrate
Russia into the modern global economy and they have advocated in favor a
hostile foreign policy toward Russia. They backed intervention in [South
Ossetia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgian%E2%80%93Ossetian_conflict)
and they were [behind the coup in
Ukraine](http://www.unz.com/pbuchanan/the-nutball-the-neocons-wanted-in-nato/)
that has plunged the country into chaos.

Neoconservatism has also curdled into a bizarre hatred of Trump, with
many neocons indulging in the most bizarre conspiracy theories. The
people defending the FBI in conservative publications are all
neocons. [Here’s Ben
Shapiro](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/456132/donald-trump-fbi-targeting)
defending the FBI. Here’s [Jonah
Goldberg](http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/456153/trump-democrats-treason-comments)
defending the coup plotters. Of course, the chief nutter of the
NeverTrump club is Bill Kristol, [whose son-in-law bought dirt on Trump
from the now infamous Democrat dirty tricks
operation](http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/washington-free-beacon-responds-to-report-it-funded-fusion-gps-anti-trump-opposition-effort/article/2638855),
FusionGPS.

In the interest of accuracy, a major cause of neocon hatred of Trump is
money. For eight years these guys were rubbing their hands together
thinking about the great jobs they would land in the Jeb Bush
administration. Jonah Goldberg’s old lady spent 2015 shopping for
outfits, anticipating a six figure job in the next Republican
administration. When you add up the book deals, salary, speaking gigs
and insider dealing, Trump was a million dollar catastrophe for each of
the leading lights of neoconservatism. Of course, they are mad.

That can explain some of the bitterness over Trump, but none of these
guys are skipping any meals. John “Thanks Dad” Podhoretz takes $400,000
a year in salary just from his limited work at Commentary. Goldberg
lives in a seven figure home in one of the most elite suburbs on earth.
Max Boot just signed on with the Washington Post, where he probably
makes $250,000 per year to write a weekly column. All of these guys were
born into the world of “high pay, but low work” lifestyles that define
the commentariat.

What really vexes them, is the fact they can no longer hide in the weeds
of Buckley Conservatism. They used to be able to pass themselves off as
conventional conservatives, who just had an active interest in foreign
policy. Now, it is eminently clear that there is nothing conservative
about them in the least. Whatever hand waving they offer in favor of
traditionalism and normalcy, is always in the form of “Of course we
should defend X, but let’s not waste political capital on that when we
should be doing…”

Reverting to their liberal roots is one thing, but it is hard to see
what is American about them, given [their advocacy against
Americans](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/29/opinion/east-germany-immigration-usa.html?rref=collection%2Fsectioncollection%2Fopinion-columnists).
When a central plank of your philosophy is that native stock Americans
need to be replaced, you are
[un-American](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12704). Steve Sailer once
described neoconservatism as “invade the world, invite the world” and it
was an excellent observation. The growing recognition of this truth
seems to be turning neocons in to outright, anti-white bigots. They
despise you for noticing what is happening to you.

[You see it in this Jonah Goldberg
column](http://www.nationalreview.com/article/456155/cult-trump-why-it-has-taken-hold)
the other day. The debate over immigration has made plain to white
voters that the divide in Washington is between those celebrating the
“[browning of
America](https://www.alternet.org/how-whites-are-reacting-browning-america)”
and [those who oppose
it](http://www.claremont.org/crb/article/the-browning-of-america/). The
Trump Effect is making that increasingly clear to voters. The people
opposing Team Brown, want to preserve their communities and their
culture. There is nothing more conservative than that, but the neocons
have now taken to calling this a cult, an obvious reference to you know
who.

Neoconservatism has come a long way from when Irving Kristol
wrote “Confessions of a True, Self-Confessed ‘Neoconservative'” in 1979.
The world has changed since the concepts that came to define
neoconservatism were developed. Of course, all of the guys who founded
it are dead. The people leading the movement today are mostly the ne’er
do well sons of the founding generation of thinkers. The “Thanks Dad
Chorus” that is modern neoconservatism is a good example of reversion to
the mean.

Of course, what Eric Hoffer observed about causes is true of the
neocons. “Every great cause begins as a movement, becomes a business,
and eventually degenerates into a racket.” In fact, this is true of the
entire ecosystem that is mainstream conservatism. The Buckley crowd are
just squeezing out every last dime from National Review, trading on
nostalgia to fleece Baby Boomers of donations. Commentary Magazine has a
dwindling readership of septuagenarians worried that Hitler really did
not die in that bunker.

Even so, Jews in America have faced little in the way of Antisemitism.
That is something white Americans have always celebrated. So much so
that no one thought much of the [emergence of Jewish
triumphalism](https://www.amazon.com/Jewish-Century-Yuri-Slezkine/dp/0691127603)
in the last decades. If that triumphalism curdles into anti-white
ethnocentrism, then that could change. When you see a guy like Jonah
Goldberg appropriating the title of James Burnham book for [his next
screed against white
people](https://www.amazon.com/Suicide-West-Tribalism-Nationalism-Destroying/dp/1101904933/),
you have to suspect this is all going to end poorly.
