---
title: "Nothing Is Ever On The Level"
date: "2018-04-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13445"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13445"
---

After the crooked FBI agent, Andrew McCabe, was finally fired by Mister
Magoo, there were posts in official media about the wrongness of it.
After all, he would lose his pension, we were told, because of politics.
Of course, that was never true. He would lose some extra benefits, but
it would be a drop in the bucket. A former FBI man of his status will
land in a high six-figure job. Given his status he could even end up at
a financial house, making seven figures.

Soon after that round of stories, a new set of stories popped up about
his crowd-sourced fundraising effort. He was up on
<a href="https://www.gofundme.com/andrewmccabelegaldefensefund"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">GoFundMe</a>. The point of the stories
was to show that the public was rallying to the side of this poor man, a
victim of the evil Donald Trump and his Nazi minions. Regardless of the
agit-prop, there was no doubt that he was raising a lot of money. Then,
it turned out to be a complete fraud. The whole thing was <a
href="https://lawandcrime.com/high-profile/andrew-mccabes-gofundme-campaign-put-together-k-street-consulting-and-pr-firm/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">an elaborate PR effort from a lobbying
firm</a>.

*Andrew McCabe recently raised over half a million dollars from small
donors by way of crowdfunding platform GoFundMe. McCabe’s
cash-collecting prowess was buoyed by several
\#Resistance-linkedpersonalities and MSNBC’s own Rachel Maddow, who
suggested McCabe should run for office because he’s so good at raising
money.*

*Was this apparent “grassroots effort” actually a PR campaign put
together by high-priced, well-connected, and experienced PR
professionals in order to take advantage of the \#Resistance’s seething
anger at the Trump administration? A Monday report in Slate suggested as
much. Law&Crime can now confirm that some of those allegations are true,
while some of them appear to oversell the issues at hand.*

Most likely, the firm behind this scheme provided the logistics, but
also the seed money to get the fund going. The theory behind this stuff
is that people will donate if they see other people donating. If other
people are giving to this guy’s fund, then you may feel more comfortable
giving money, because you assume it is the right thing to do, based on
the fact others are doing it. This is marketing 101. Companies often use
various forms of indirect peer pressure to sell product.

Of course, there is another angle to this.

*Melissa Schwartz is a crisis and communications consultant who
currently works for The Bromwich Group. After previously working for
then-Senator Barbara Mikulski, the Department of Justice, and the Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (where she served
under her once-and-future boss), Schwartz joined The Bromwich Group as
their chief operating officer in 2012. She’s also McCabe’s present
spokesperson.*

*The Bromwich Group is a K Street consulting and PR firm headed
by Michael R. Bromwich. Immediately prior to founding the firm, Bromwich
served as the first director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
under President Barack Obama. As a former mineral extraction regulator,
Bromwich promised that his firm would never lobby for energy industry
clients. Prior to this role, Bromwich served as the Inspector General
for the Department of Justice under President Bill Clinton.*

Given the people involved, would it surprise anyone if McCabe is
eventually found stretched out in Fort Marcy Park? That’s most likely
been carefully explained to the McCabe family in detail. Even the most
generous reading of events suggests McCabe is a man who knows too much.
For now, the syndicate is looking out for him, but eventually he’ll have
to be dealt with in a more permanent manner. You don’t want to be the
guy selling him life insurance right now.

That aside, it is a good reminder that nothing is on the level. Politics
has always been crooked, but the degree of dishonesty is different.
Rachel Maddow is a dunce, but the people running MSNBC are not stupid.
They knew what this firm was doing. They probably offered to help
promote it. Today, it is prudent to assume everything in mass media is a
carefully considered PR campaign. The point of the media is to bamboozle
the public in some way. Nothing is on the level and no grift is too
small.
