---
title: "On Writing"
date: "2018-03-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13136"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13136"
---

One of things I wish I were better at doing is answering questions sent
by readers and now listeners. I have an e-mail address tied to this
site, but I do not look it often enough, so I tend to be late in getting
back to people. Then there are the questions that come through the
comment section of YouTube and through social media. In an effort to
clean up my act I have been trying to catch up on all of it and I
noticed I get a lot of questions about writing and the task of writing.
It is a popular topic, apparently, so I thought I would make a post of
it.

It is good timing, as I have started to go through my posts here looking
for ones to pin to a greatest hits link on the site. This is a common
suggestion, so I am working on that now. That means re-reading five year
old posts, which has been edifying. I started this blog with the idea of
doing no editing, just a stream of consciousness sort of thing, but that
did not come out well. Looking back, I appreciate the terribleness of
the effort even more, as I have evolved a style that seems to work
pretty well for me and my audience.

That brings me to the question I get a lot and that is, how to be a good
writer. I do not know the answer to that as I am not sure you can be a
good writer in the objective sense. I like certain styles more than
others, but that does not mean the styles I do not like are the result
of bad form. I could have weird tastes. My hunch is “good writers” are
those who have figured out a style that works for them. It allows them
to efficiently get across to the reader, the points they are trying to
make on the subjects they find interesting.

Most likely, the only way to do that is write a lot. Looking over this
blog, I see that I have slowly, through trial and error, developed a
style that I like reading. It took a while and some of my ideas turned
out to be wacky, but for the last couple of years I have stuck to a form
and method that I find easy. This has corresponded with a rapid growth
in readership, suggesting that I have found a style that works for me. I
find it easier to write now than at any time in my life, so I suspect
getting “good” means finding what works for you.

On the other hand, I am a different reader than I was five years ago.
Until I started posting every day, I never thought too much about
writing styles. When I did start thinking about it, I became a different
reader. I also started reading much more and much more variety. I have
read books and articles on a much broader range of topics that in the
past, mostly because I have become curious about writing styles. Writing
a movie review is a different task from writing a short story. Different
jobs mean different skills.

If I were giving advice to a young person, who wanted to make a career
writing, I would probably tell them to read for a few hours each day,
but never read the same type of material two days in row. The thing I
have come to notice about the popular writers I do not like is they are
blinkered. I get the sense that they are not very curious about the
world. Maybe that is the key to being an enjoyable writer, a healthy
curiosity. Or maybe it is just something I enjoy. It is hard to know,
but reading is always its own reward.

A related question I get a lot, concerns the writers I mock from time to
time. The reason I make sport of people like Kevin Williamson is not the
content, so much as the lack of candor. I like opinion writers who write
their own opinions. For me, the best writers are those who are smart,
honest and clear. Over the last few years, I have concluded that
Williamson is none of those things. I never liked George Will for much
the same reason. Will is a ridiculous phony and I have no tolerance for
phonies.

On the other hand, one of my favorite writers ever was the late
Christopher Hitchens. I doubt I agreed with any of his opinions, but he
always struck me as someone who said what he thought and did so in a way
that made it easy to understand. He was also a well read and smart guy.
He just happened to believe a lot of insane things about the world, but
he was an extraordinarily good writer. I never read a Hitchens piece and
thought he was trying to fool me or he was simply writing for a
paycheck. That counts for a lot.

Clarity is probably the rarest thing in writing, so I really appreciate
that in writers. I am re-reading Greg Cochran’s The 10,000 Year
Explosion and I marvel at the clarity. These are hard topics, yet
Cochran has a way of getting to the point that makes the material easy
to understand. Getting to the point is the key. I have never understood
why anyone wants to be a windbag. My advice to any writer is make your
point and move on to the next point. If you need to keep returning to
the point, maybe you do not know the material.

Finally, a question that comes up often is why I pick the topics I pick
every day. Maybe there is some pattern here that I do not see, but my
selection criteria are quite elaborate and complex. I sit down and
whatever comes to my head at the moment, is the topic for the day. I
like writing in the morning, so whatever I woke up thinking about that
day is the topic of the day. Basically, I write about what I feel like
reading about at the moment. Usually, I do not find much out there, so I
write what I wish I could be reading.

Until just now, that is not something I thought about much, but my bet
is the really good writers stick to a style and focus on subjects they
like reading. I am a Faulkner fan, having read everything he wrote, and
that is what always struck me about him. He wrote with himself as the
target audience. Hemingway wrote to impress people, but Faulkner wrote
to entertain himself. In the fullness of time, Faulkner will be
remembered as one of our greatest writers and Hemingway will be
remembered as a boorish clown.
