---
title: "Civil War"
date: "2018-01-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12498"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12498"
---

This was a <a
href="http://www.americanthinker.com/articles/2017/12/what_might_civil_war_be_like.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">popular item</a> recently. It is a post
about statistics, but the post got a lot of replies, because people
think America is headed toward a civil war. Perhaps people with an
interest in statistical methods worry about civil wars, in addition to
methodological wars. It could also be that people fond of math know that
society is fragile and it would not take much to topple it over. The
distance between us and Somalia is not a big as we like to pretend.

Anyway, it is a good brain teaser. What would a civil war be like? The
country is a vastly different place than the last time. The North is
still richer than the south, but there is a Midwest, Southwest, West and
Northwest now. More important, nothing is made in the Northeast anymore,
other than trouble. The North is also the oldest part of the country,
lacking a robust male population. By the standards of the last civil
war, the North would be at a demographic, cultural and material
disadvantage.

But that was then and this is now. Civil wars tend to be territorial and
the regionalism of America is not what it once was. Lots of people from
New England have moved south to the Carolinas, for example. Florida is
full New Yorkers and is the retirement home to much of the Northeast.
Northern Virginia is a region full of strangers, brought together by
high paying government work. In event of war, people could move back to
their home turf, but that seems unlikely.

There is also the fact that civil wars are almost always between the
elites. The people are dragged into it by the warring factions at the
top. In modern America, the elites have never been more unified. In
fact, they are so united we now have one political party, the Uni-Party.
The reason that you cannot tell the difference between the political
opinions of Jonah Goldberg and Ezra Klein is that ideologically they are
the same guy, with the same paymasters.

If there was to be a civil war in America, it would first have to start
as a revolt and gain enough steam to be a genuine threat to the status
quo. If a revolt grew into a serious threat to the interests of the
ruling classes, then you might see some elements decide to throw in with
the rebels. In all likelihood, it would be the younger, lower level
members of the elites, looking for an opportunity to leapfrog their
superiors. Alternatively, the revolt could quickly grow an elite of its
own.

Of course, there is the racial angle. It is funny in a way, but the two
groups convinced of the coming race war are blacks and white
nationalists. The trouble with this idea is the time for a race war was
sixty years ago. There were plenty of young black males thinking they
had nothing to lose and plenty of young white males thinking they had
everything to lose, Today, the only people thinking race war are
mentally unstable black guys and white nationalists.

There is also the technological issue. The lesson of the last century is
that conventional warfare was no longer a good way for settling
disputes. Putting aside nukes, conventional weapons had simply become
too lethal and too destructive. Prior to the Great War, winning meant
gaining useful territory. Modern warfare means destroyed cities and
fractured economies for both sides. In a civil war, modern arms would
mean a terrible bloodbath for both sides.

New Englanders would love to re-enact Sherman’s march to the sea, but
they would end up killing more allies than enemies. The economic cost to
the North would be devastating. The degree of integration in a modern
society would work against the instinct to destroy the other guy’s
stuff. Throw in the regionalism issue above and conventional warfare
with set-piece battles and troop formations is not going to serve the
interests of anyone in the next American civil war.

There is also another problem. The US military is about 1.3 million
people, but about 80% are in administrative and support roles. We have
more people in uniform pushing buttons at a keyboard than carrying a
pack in the field. Of that fighting force, about two-thirds are deployed
at any one time. It is not an accident that our political class is not a
fan of keeping large numbers of combat ready troops on US soil. In a
civil war, the US military would probably disintegrate quickly.

Now, America has been waging non-lethal war on the world for a long time
in the form of financial war and now information war. Economic sanctions
are a form of warfare intended to create unrest in the target society.
North Korea’s quest for nukes is the economic war we have been waging
against them. The Bush people took steps to cut them off from the
banking system and thus starve the regime of hard currency. That has
made the elites of the regime much poorer and weaker as a result.

In a civil war, the tools of finance would come to bear. Assuming the
civil war began as a revolt, the ruling class would first attempt to
squeeze the rebels financially, by cutting them off from the financial
system, making it hard to raise money. This means shutting down their
PayPal accounts. Credit card processors would be pressured to
discontinue service. When that failed, banks would be forced to close
accounts and the seize assets of troublemakers.

This would also discourage members of the elite from getting any ideas
about supporting the rebels against the senior elements of the elite.
This would be augmented by the use of information war to undermine the
moral authority of the rebels, thus starving them of ability to gain
popular support. Humans are social animals and they instinctively seek
to distance themselves from the taboo. That would mean using mass media
organs to evangelize against the rebels.

If all of this sounds familiar, it should. America, and the West, is
teetering on the verge of civil war, but a modern, technological civil
war. On the one side is the globalist elite, who have purged their ranks
of anyone skeptical of the project. The brewing revolt is mostly the
people willing to question the prevailing orthodoxy. The panic we saw
last summer by the tech giants was motivated by a fear that the internet
revolt was becoming a revolt in the streets.

[This is the face of modern civil
war](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/12/the-making-of-an-american-nazi/544119/).
