---
title: "The Death of Sportsball"
date: "2018-05-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Race
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13720"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13720"
---

Down at the Hater’s Ball, we were joking around at the banquet about the
things you stop enjoying when you become race aware. Pop culture is an
obvious one, given the absurd levels of anti-white vitriol we see on TV
and in movies. I mentioned that sports stop being fun, as you spend all
your time noticing the propaganda and lose track of the games. I am not
the first guy to notice this. At Mencken last year, I was hanging out
with a couple of people who despised sportsball because of the endless
racial agitation in it.

Back in Lagos, I am enjoying my free evenings by watching some
television and catching up on some movies. I happened to catch about
five minutes of a basketball game. It was Cleveland versus Toronto. The
announcers were carrying on like LeBron James had just cured cancer,
whenever he put the ball in the hoop. Some famous black guy was on the
sidelines doing back flips for some reason. It was like watching a
bizarre African circus, but the stands were packed with whites. I lasted
about five minutes and turned it off.

The NBA has always been an odd business. The people who own the teams
are the types who do business from card tables and folding chairs. They
keep a bug-out bag ready and leave their car idling in the parking lot,
just in case. The owners are all Jewish. The players are all black. The
fans are all white. The NBA is pretty much a long running advertisement
for upside down world, where blacks are the elite and whites are at the
bottom. It is, in many respects, a metaphor for where we are as a
society in the current age.

Anyway, it got me wondering how these sportsball leagues remain in
business, despite their hostility toward their customers. Going to
sporting events is a civic nationalist sort of thing if you think about
it. It is the last place we have where people from the community can
meet in public and enjoy something together. The downtown shopping area
is dead. Malls are dying off. The movie theater has been replaced by the
home theater system. A sportsball game is one of the last public
gathering places we have now.

As with so much of our society, the sportsball model assumes the sorts
of social arrangements that come with an 80% white society, where people
trust one another and take pride in their place. You have an emotional
attachment to the local teams because they represent local pride, even
if the players are mercenaries. In a world where all relationships are
transactional and one place is as good as another, what is the point of
following the local team? That seems to be showing up in [surveys like
this](https://www.statista.com/statistics/348384/how-closely-people-follow-the-nba-by-age-group/)
about the NBA.

Another tell that sportsball is headed for a bad time is what is
happening with college sports. There, fan loyalty has the added hook of
attendance. Alabama football not only plays on state loyalty, they have
tens of thousands of graduates who can show their pride by supporting
the football team. That means donations. Talk to the people who fund
raise for athletic departments and they will tell you that the younger
graduates are far less willing to give than previous generations. The
“culture of giving” is not there with millennials.

It is not just the changing demographics of America; it is the berserk
impulse by the people running the sportsball leagues to destroy what
makes sports appealing. [Here is a
story](http://www.espn.com/espnw/sports/article/23369408/jennifer-satterfield-siegel-key-rev-racing-effort-bring-more-diversity-nascar)
about how NASCAR is trying to grovel at the altar of multiculturalism. I
can guarantee you that not a single racing fan in the South has said to
his friend, “You know what would make NASCAR perfect? More blacks.”
Sports used to be an escape and a celebration. Today, even NASCAR is a
sermon and warning. How is that sustainable?

The funny thing is the sportsball leagues appear to understand that
their model depends on fooling whitey about their intentions. I went to
opening day for the Lagos baseball team and the pre-game ceremonies
would have made Leni Riefenstahl blush. I enjoy some flag waving still,
but I was offended by the volume and intensity of it. There were calls
to hero worship the military, the cops, some civic group they trotted
out. I went to see a baseball game and instead I got an Orwellian rally
to celebrate the great leader and his works.

The reason they lay it on so thick is they feel they have to. They say
flag waving is the last refuge of a scoundrel, so a sport worried about
its appeal will resort to claiming it is your patriotic duty to love
baseball. Looking around at the crowd that day, I saw very few non-white
faces. It was all white families and white businesspeople skipping out
of work. Baltimore is a 70% black city that has to import its sports
fans. When America is 70% non-white, from where will they import their
fans then? Will it matter?

Given what has happened with the NFL ratings the last few years and the
drop in live attendance for all sports, sportsball is in for a rough
time. Professional sportsball is not the same business as selling cheap
junk from China. For sportsball to work, there has to be an emotional
bond between customer and team. That means the fan has to trust the
owners of the team are on their side. In our deracinated, low-trust
society, which cannot happen. Therefore, it is hard to see how the
sportsball model holds up much longer.
