---
title: "Constitutional Conservatives"
date: "2018-09-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14988"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14988"
---

A listener asked why I was hostile to the “constitutional conservatives”
given that I would prefer to live in a society that abides by those old
rules. After all, the tricorn hat crowd just wants to return to the old
order as defined by the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. That’s a
fair question and it is certainly true that most people in dissident
politics came from some form of official conservatism or libertarianism.
As such, most everyone here prefers ordered liberty.

The first problem with identifying as “conservative” is that the label
has been thoroughly corrupted. When someone like Jonah Goldberg is
considered the face of conservatism, the label no longer has meaning.
Goldberg started out on the far left working for Ben Wattenberg at PBS.
His “journey” to the right got him only as far neo-conservatism, which
has always been a costume. The fact these people are allowed to call
themselves conservative says conservatism is a meaningless label.

Even if you eliminate the neocons as not really conservatives, what’s
left is nothing more than 1960’s progressivism and some ostentatious
Bible waving. The self-styled “Bible believing Christians” are about as
Christian as Hinduism. Their bespoke brand of religion is a product of
the therapeutic culture, not Western civilization. Of course,
libertarianism has always been libertinism with endless argument against
organized to defeat progressivism,

Like the word “fascism” the word conservative carries with it baggage I
have no interest in totting around. Any effort to “reclaim conservatism”
is either a waste of time or doomed to subversion and corruption.
Dissident politics is not just about rejecting the people who man the
barricades. It is a rejection of the prevailing orthodoxy. The problem
with Buckley conservatism was never just about ideology. It was the sort
of people who saw it as a useful vehicle that was always the problem.

As far as the argument in favor of “returning to our constitutional
principles” is concerned, it is important to understand that one reason
why we are where we are now is those constitutional principles. The men
who wrote the document and assembled the political order at the
founding, did so to lock in their positions. Winners not only write the
history books, but they also write the constitutions. Their old rules no
longer make sense in the world created by progressives.

A small child alive at the time of the Constitutional Convention, if he
lived a long life, could have seen the birth and death of the American
Republic. Within one generation, it was clear that the constitutional
order was not going to hold together. The Hartford conventions were in
1815. Of course, not long after, the issue of slavery and the
irreconcilable difference between the American South and Yankee New
England made clear that the constitutional order was untenable.

The point here is while those “constitutional principles” sound
appealing to our modern ears, the people who lived them did not like
them very much. Interestingly, the romantics for the 18th century
politics have the same problem as fascist romantics, in that they never
wonder why their ideal was a complete failure. The fascist ideal can
sound pretty good, until you look at the actual results. The same holds
for the constitutional republic, as designed by the Founders.

Even if you can argue that with some modifications, the old order can be
made to work, accounting for progressive efforts to undermine order, the
problem is the same one faced by libertarians. That is, short of a
violent revolution followed by a good bit of genocide, there is no going
back to the old system. The people in charge will never permit it.
That’s why they are tolerant of constitutional conservatives. They
merely function as the court jesters of the neoliberal state.

Putting all of that aside, ask a constitutional conservative if he would
like to bring back slavery or even freedom of association. The best you
will ever get from these people is a willingness to limit the vote to
taxpayers or property holders. They can’t even talk honestly about the
role of women. Most of what the Founders believed is now considered
disqualifying racism, sexism and ethnocentrism and the conservatives
would agree with the Left on it.

The simple truth is that conservatism has been utterly worthless in
stopping the march of progressivism through the institutions. If the
Founders were alive today and gained power, the first people they would
hang would be the conservatives on the grounds they collaborated with
the enemy. For as long as I’ve been alive, the left’s greatest weapon in
the culture war has been the so-called constitutional conservatives. In
every fight, it has been these people who have counseled surrender.

Just as mobsters wrap a victim of a hit in a carpet and toss him in the
nearest dumpster, the goal for us it to wrap the so-called conservatives
in their constitution and dump them into the dustbin of history. If
there is to be a society in North America where white parents can raise
white children, white people must stop thinking there is an orderly
solution to a lawless society. The people in charge have no respect for
the spirit of the laws, much less the letter of the laws.
