---
title: "The Revolutionary Man"
date: "2018-10-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15220"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15220"
---

Radical feminist Andrea Dworkin is credited with coining the phrase “war
on women” in 1989, when she first used the phrase in a book
introduction. Perhaps sensing she had something useful, she later used
it in a book title. Democrat politicians have used it ever since to
gaslight single female voters. Given the life of Mx. Dworkin, it is no
surprise that the phrase is one of those fine examples of the [Opposite
Rule of Liberalism](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=561). The actual
war on women has always been from the cult-Marx radicals of feminism.

In other words, just because the war on women, as described by slovenly
feminists like Mx. Dworkin is a fiction; it does not mean there is not a
war on women. In fact, the main thrust of the cult-Marx war on white
society has been a war on white women, convincing them that their role
in society is illegitimate. Not only is the role of wife and mother
immoral, but it is also a tool used by the patriarchy, by which they
mean white culture, to prevent women from reaching their full potential.
Feminism was called women’s liberation for a reason.

Sex roles in a society are never about one sex. The roles of men and
women are complimentary. When one changes even a tiny a bit, the other
much change. It is why the Saudis are so cautious about changing their
rules on women. It is not because they hate women, as loony feminist
would have you believe. It is because they fear setting off a chain
reaction that would destroy men and women. After all, generations of
enforcing a set of rules on the sexes has shaped how men see themselves
and each other too.

An example of this in our society is in [this
story](https://www.thedailybeast.com/floridas-porn-king-accused-of-sexually-exploiting-women)
about a pornographer in Florida, who is accused of being sexist. The
idea of a pornographer being accused of exploiting women, in the context
of modern feminism, strikes most people as an amusing bit of irony.
Every day we are being treated to increasingly absurd claims by
overwrought females, about how they were done wrong by some mean man.
Until the Kavanaugh fiasco, the idea of doing this to a pornographer
probably struck most people as the limit of the absurd.

Put that aside and consider the morality at play here though. According
to feminist dogma, being a pornographer is fine, if he respects the
choices made by the women he films having sex.  Similarly, a woman
degrading herself on camera, for the amusement of desperate men, is a
celebration of feminism, if the “sex worker” does so of her own free
will and has “control of her body”, whatever that means. In other words,
morality has been so deformed it now champions prostitution as a
celebration of female liberation.

Pornography, of course, is as old as human society, most certainly older
than human settlement. Prostitution is cheekily called the world’s
oldest profession, because it has existed wherever settled people
existed. Human societies everywhere have had to find a way to both
accept the permanence of this reality, but also curtail it to maintain
the social conditions necessary for the people to flourish. The balance
struck is slightly different in all cultures, but the practice always
falls outside of what is considered moral.

The thing that is stunning, though, about that story of the Florida
pornographer, is the shameless way he goes about his business. He agreed
to have a documentary done about him, believing it was good for his
image. He is more than happy to talk with the media and let the world
know his name and location. Within my lifetime, people in the
pornography business tried to conceal their activity and hide from
public view, because the public would not tolerate it. The pornographer
lived in fear of men.

That is an important point deliberately erased from the record. Laws
governing things like pornography were not imposed on the public by
puritanical rulers. They were in response to the threat by men to hang
the sorts of people who preyed on young girls, grooming them for lives
of prostitution and pornography. By relegating this stuff to a protected
fringe, it satisfied the demands of men to protect their women, but also
kept the streets from being littered with the corpses of degenerates. It
is that balance that must always be struck.

Today, “porn king” Riley Reynolds is not only free to go about his
business in the public square, but he is also celebrated for it.
Feminism was a war on women to emasculate men, so that they would be
indifferent to degenerates like Riley Reynolds. As much as modern white
men complain about modern white women, a big part of why women are
acting as they do is that men are no longer willing to guard their
women. If a group of guys dragged Riley Reynolds out of his house and
hung him from a tree, more than a few women would cheer.

This is where the men’s rights crowd and the pickup artists got it all
wrong. The answer to the degeneracy of feminism is not sullen
indifference or craven opportunism. The solution to feminism is for men
to get back to policing their own ranks, by enforcing codes of conduct
that leave women no choice but to fulfill their natural roles. If white
people are going to survive, it will be in a world in which guys
like Riley Reynolds are found dead in a ditch. It is a world where Roosh
V lives in fear of men, not in fear of women.

That was always the insidiousness of feminism. It was never really about
women. It was always about undermining Western societies by emasculating
the men. A society where the men are unwilling to protect their
daughters from pornographers, too timid to fight back against Pakistani
rape gangs, is a defeated society. Men who wait for someone else to
protect their women will never find the courage to fight against their
masters. When men on our side get that and begin to enforce a moral code
on other men, the revolution begins.
