---
title: "Speculative Speculation"
date: "2018-04-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13535"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13535"
---

Pat Buchanan wrote [a
book](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Churchill,_Hitler_and_the_Unnecessary_War)
contemplating alternatives to war with the Nazis and one implication of
his alternative history is the Nazis never would have existed. A more
sensible policy toward Germany after the Great War would have short
circuited the process that created the Nazis. His other assertion is
that even if Hitler came to power, his ambitions would not have been
magnified by the humiliation resulting from the Treaty of Versailles.
The Nazis would have been different.

In one of [Dan Carlin’s podcasts](https://www.dancarlin.com/), he
speculated a bit about what would have happened if the Nazis had
survived World War II and continued to rule Germany. Instead of war, the
British had struck a deal with the Germans so they could have a country
for all German people, but not dominating the continent militarily. The
result being something similar to modern Germany, in terms of territory,
but run by the Nazis. The point of his thought experiment was to imagine
how Nazism would evolve as a peacetime ruling ideology.

Usually, these sorts of thought experiments just assume the Nazis would
have remained the evil Hollywood version we have all been trained to
imagine. The rest of the fantasy has them doing awful things to all of
the usual suspects. In reality, the Nazis evolved into what they were
partially in response to war. Germany was turned into a munitions
factory in order to wage war and that altered the party. A party ruling
a normal nation, at peace with its neighbors, would have been a
different party.

One outcome of the Buchanan scenario of a Germany at peace, but ruled by
the Nazis is there would not have been a Holocaust. That sounds
counter-intuitive, but the choice of mass murder was not the first
option for the Nazis, when dealing with unwanted minority populations.
War made it the default option. In a peaceful world, the most likely
scenario would have been the traditional one, where Jews, gypsies, slavs
and anyone else deemed undesirable would have been exiled.

Another probable outcome is Hitler would have been deposed at some point
after peace with the rest of Europe. His personal style was appealing in
the economic and political crisis of pre-war Germany and tolerable in
the crisis of war. Megalomaniacs tend not to do well in stable periods.
Eventually, the various classes and interests of German society would
have decided they could do better than Hitler. That and the leadership
of the party was full of ambitious and aggressive men.

That means the most likely outcome of peace would have been turmoil in
the party and a series of purges like under Stalin. Germans are not
Russians, so a period of turmoil would most likely have resulted in a
some sort of stable ruling committee at the top of the party. The
unbalanced lunatics and sadists would have been purged in favor of the
more practical. There were a lot of Albert Speer types in the junior
ranks, who knew how to run a proper society.

There are a lot of assumptions there, but that’s the nature of
alternative history. If things were different, they would not be the
same. Assuming the Nazis could have negotiated peace to a willing Europe
and managed to get through the decade or so of intra-party squabbles to
emerge as a stable ruling elite, what would the “new” Germany have
evolved into as a society? It’s not something anyone thinks much about
as it does not further the narrative. The Nazis are evil. The end.

Probably, the Great War veterans that founded the party would have been
pushed aside, in favor of the inter-war generation from upper-class
families who joined the party in the 1930’s. A guy like Albert Speer was
able to rise quickly because he was smart, well-educated and cultured.
That means the party would have become less militaristic and more
corporate. That also means German society would have evolved away from a
martial order to something like a modern America.

Economically, the Nazis were ad hoc socialists, in that they embraced
command economics as a practical solution to present problems.
Ideologically, they had no economic plan. Again, Albert Speer provides
insight into what the post-peace Nazi party would have done. Companies
like Mercedes, Siemens, Krupp, BASF, Deutsche Bank and others that
profited doing business with the Nazis during the war, would have
emerged as the dominant companies under peacetime Germany.

It would have been the sort of corporatism we see emerging in America,
where private firms get narrow monopolies and in exchange for enforcing
the cultural norms desired by the ruling elite. Corporations are not
supporters of civil liberties and they certainly don’t like market
competition. Wherever big business prevails, freedom declines and
markets collapse. Instead of being turned into a massive munitions
facility, the peaceful Nazi Germans would have been turned into a
national corporate conglomerate.

The point of this sort of speculation is not to better understand the
past, but to better understand the present. The first half of the 20th
century in Europe was the result of a great economic paradigm shift.
Europe had moved from an agrarian, trading society to an industrial and
urban one. The result was the great concentration of wealth and the rise
of corporatism. It was not just in Germany. The Italians, Spanish,
Portuguese and even Americans saw a lot of merit in fascism.

When looked at from the current age, where global corporations are
enthusiastically enforcing moral codes and partnering with the state to
impose an order that benefits the managerial class, it suggests
corporatism is inevitable or a default arrangement. The democratic state
prefers dealing with a few dominant actors, so popular government
encourages the concentration of capital. Eventually, those
concentrations of wealth become rival power centers and then they join
the state as partners in power.

Interestingly, what the Nazis imagined for Europe, where Germany sat
atop a unified continent, is pretty much what the EU is today. What we
have come to call globalism is taking the same concept and scaling it up
to include all of the modern economies. A guy like Albert Speer, if he
were alive today, would recognize what was evolving. It also means that
the balance to this would be some sort of organized labor component,
that includes everyone outside the managerial class. The third leg of
the stool, so to speak.
