---
title: "The Future Is Now"
date: "2018-12-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15722"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15722"
---

People love talking about the future, as it allows them to project their
own narrative onto the present, without having to argue about facts and
reason. The robot future is the best example. Those inclined to doom and
gloom assume the robots take over and the result will be awful.
Libertarians imagine robots taking over and immediately realize a
society based on private property is the only viable option. In other
words, when we start imagining the glorious future, we do so to make
points about the present.

The fact is the future is never what is promised. Those inclined to dark
thoughts in the middle of the last century were sure Orwell’s vision was
mostly correct. We live nothing like that today, but people insist he
will be proven correct any day now. Of course, the glorious future
promised in the middle of the last century never happened either.
Instead of flying cars, hot women in tight fitting jumpsuits and
colonies on Mars, we have traffic jams, fat single mothers scurrying
over the southern border and an emerging police state.

Just because the futurists always seem to be wrong, it does not mean no
one warned about what was coming. Every society has its prophets. That
is because the future does not spring from nothing. There are always
signs early on, suggesting what comes next and the ramifications of it.
In retrospect, those signs seem obvious, of course, but the fact that
some people saw them suggests people could not see them or to simply
ignored them for short term reasons. Immigration policy is an obvious
example.

What commonplace items today will be things the robot historians look at
and wonder how we missed them? [This
story](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/23andme-warnings-at-home-genetic-test_n_5c01b108e4b0606a15b54dae)
at the Huffington Post on DNA testing is an example. The story itself is
unimportant. It is the sort of thing that would have appeared in a
woman’s magazine fifty years ago, except the topic would have been
French cooking. That is a clue but one being missed today. Popular
culture is now awash in females playing roles, other than the one for
which they evolved.

The interesting bit is the writer. Her name is Julia Ries, a young
graduate of Boston College, working as a freelance writer. [Here is her
resume](https://www.juliaries.com/resume/). Boston College is one of the
more prestigious schools in America these days. It is in a new class of
colleges called the “New Ivies” because their admissions standards are
similar to the Ivies and their name carries a lot of weight in the
managerial class. That means young Mx Ries is emblematic of the type of
woman who will be taking up a position in the ruling class.

Look at the job titles. It is a dog’s breakfast of managerial speak. For
example, she was a media planner for health and wellness clients. The
word “wellness” is a neologism that means the state of not being sick.
In other words, instead of being sick, people have degrees of wellness.
No one can ever be completely well, so there is a whole industry to
promote wellness. If you read that entry carefully, what you see is she
spent her days recommending keywords that would work in a Google search.

The next entry is “Digital Content Strategist” which she describes as
“we listened to clients talk about the growing pains their brands were
experiencing and we whipped up some powerful campaigns to create some
buzz and punch things up.” If you want to know why [corporate
communications is a tangle of neologism and nonsense
phrases](https://www.atrixnet.com/bs-generator.html), there’s your
answer. It is bright young people spending their days coming up with new
ways to say what their parents said. It is a thousand monkeys pounding
away at search engines.

The point here is this woman is pushing thirty and her career thus far
has been a series of nonsense jobs with clever titles. She no doubt
thinks they are important steps on the career ladder, and they very well
may be essential steps. The managerial system is just an apprenticeship
process bolted onto an exam system. If you want to know why mass media
is populated with middle aged airheads, incapable of dealing with
observable reality, the answer lies in the resumes of young people like
Mx. Ries.

The managerial system is not just selecting for the weak and frivolous
within its ranks. It is breeding a generation of hot house flowers with
its exam system. [This
story](http://bwog.com/2018/11/30/nimesh-patel-stand-up-routine-cut-short-due-to-uncomfortable-jokes/)
Sailer linked to is a great example. The Hindu comic gets the hook,
because his jokes made the Columbia students uncomfortable. The thing
about it is the students did not rush the stage or stomp off in a huff.
They sat there in various states of emotional distress, until their
handlers rushed to the stage and shut down the comedian mid-set.

The point of all this is there seems to be a strange flaw in the
managerial system, that will probably seem obvious in another
generation. That is, the system selects for and cultivates increasingly
weak-minded people. As the system becomes more complex and
interdependent, the people become more helpless, depending on the
inertia of the system to supply courage and resolve. In a system built
by people with the soul of a human resource department, the greatest
skill is doing nothing while sounding essential.

Perhaps the system will become self-aware before this becomes a crisis,
but that is not the way to bet. Instead, we will reach a point at which
the people in charge are emotionally, morally, and intellectually
incapable of addressing the inevitable crisis. We may be getting a
glimpse of this in France, where the ridiculous fop Emmanuel Macron is
quickly being undone by men in safety vests. Macron is an example
suggesting the managerial system is not going to produce a Napoleon or
even a de Gaulle to save the day.

The Mongols figured out that invaders from the hills had a habit of
taking on the habits of the people they conquered in the valley. The
conquers got soft and were in turn conquered by a new tribe from the
hills. The Mongols tried to remedy that by being raiders and never
settling the lands they conquered. In the West, allowing talent to
bubble up from the bottom, often in military service and later business,
was a way to keep the ruling class vigorous and on edge. This used to be
the way things were done in America.

Today, the ruling classes of the West are a closed system. The children
of the elite head off to prep schools nestled away in secluded areas.
They head off to nice colleges and then start their apprenticeship in
the system. Outsiders can only gain entry by first proving they are no
threat to question the system. The managerial class is becoming a hot
house of make believe work and fatuous airheads. Like the people in the
valley enjoying the good life, they are wholly unequipped to handle the
next conqueror.

 
