---
title: "Vae Victis"
date: "2018-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14464"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14464"
---

The FTN guys posted [a special podcast on the American
Revolution](https://therightstuff.biz/2018/07/17/ftn-focus-we-the-people-an-american-coup-detat/)
and the process that resulted in the Constitution. Instead of reciting
the standard mythology about the Founders and their alleged love of
liberty, they get into the economic motivations of the men who met in
Philadelphia to restructure post-colonial America. They also talk about
the men who were excluded, as well as the interests they represented. It
is a well-done episode that gets into the forgotten parts of the
founding story, as well as the economic motivations.

The basis of their analysis is the historian Charles Beard’s [An
Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the United
States](https://www.amazon.com/Economic-Interpretation-Constitution-United-States/dp/048643365X).
Beard argued that the structure of the Constitution and the process that
produced it was the result of the personal financial interests of the
Founders. For example, George Washington had provided significant
financing for the revolution, so the Constitutional guarantee that the
newly formed nation would pay its debts worked out pretty well for
people like Washington and the other bond holders.

Beard built on earlier Progressive interpretations of American history
and can probably be described as a proto-Marxist historian. His analysis
of the Founding is that it was first a revolt against the monarchy and
then a counter revolution against democracy by the mercantile class
located in the cities. It was not just the issue of repaying war debts.
The financial class also saw the Articles of Confederation as a
hindrance to trade, because there was no central authority to strike
trade agreements with foreign governments.

Beard is an interesting guy, who was immensely popular with the Left
into the Cold War, but then fell out of favor in the 1960’s. This seems
like an odd thing, given that his reading of American history is based
in class conflict. The New Left historians, however, rejected that
interpretation in favor of racial and sexual conflict, which meant
abandoning facts and standards in favor of emotion and vengeance.
Neo-conservative historians rejected all of that in favor of selling the
narrative of Americanism as a vehicle for present policy.

One of Beard’s insights was that the people located in cities not only
have a different set of economic interests, but they also have a
different relationship with government. In the 19th century, which meant
the city dwellers were much more receptive to socialism than the
citizens in the country. The main reason was that the city dweller gets
used to bumping up against the government on a daily basis. It feels
natural to them. Citizens in the country, particularly in the 19th
century, had little contact with the state, so it seemed alien to them.

This suggests something about the nature of socialism, as throughout
history urban populations have supported authoritarians, while rural
populations have not. In the ancient world, a savvy tyrant
like [Peisistratus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peisistratos) could
appeal to the masses of urban poor, to challenge the power of the
aristocrats. On the other hand, authoritarian appeals work much better
in high density environments. Still, daily familiarity with the power of
the state makes people more trusting and comfortable with it. Socialism
relies on that trust.

Of course, the defect of class-conflict historiography is that it tries
to jam all facts into a model of society. Instead of the theory
explaining history, history is used to explain the theory. There is no
question that the men who met in Philadelphia had direct financial
interest in the outcome. They were also motivated by all the usual stuff
like patriotism, regional loyalty, and petty stupidity. That stuff is
every bit as interesting as economics and just as important. In other
words, history is both [particles and
waves](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13773).

More important and related to the podcast, is the fact that the people
who drive history have personal interests. The men who revolted against
the king, did so because they saw an advantage in it. Once they gained
control of the country, they were not about to give it away or arrange
things to their disadvantage. After all, the whole point of the
revolution was to get a better deal. The Articles of Confederation were
simply an interregnum, while the new elite figured out how they were
going to lock in their position after evicting the old elite.

That was the point of the Constitution and the point of all subsequent
changes to it, including the Civil War. Similarly, the mythology of the
founding, as well as the “second founding” as neoconservative historians
call the Civil War, is part of locking in that position via the miracle
of propaganda. All of the soupy romanticism of American history is
intended to convince the rest of us that the current arrangements are
the result of Providence. Political arrangements are not about ideals.
They are about power.

This is an important lesson for anyone in dissident politics. The first
goal, that which everything bends toward, is to gain power. This is why
the New Left has rolled through the culture. They first seized power and
then cooked up timeless principles to justify their position. It is also
why the legacy Right’s appeal to principle must be rejected. Limiting
your options by self-imposed rules and inviolable principles is a recipe
for failure. The truth of life is that politics is about power. First
you seize power and then vae victis.
