---
title: "Denmark Diary II"
date: "2018-09-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15039"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15039"
---

The whole point of this trip was to attend the Scandza Forum, which is a
series of conferences organized by someone calling himself Frodi
Midjord. He is originally from the Faroe Islands, but he now lives in
Norway. Greg Johnson spoke at the previous events, and he suggested I
should attend if possible. For those interested in knowing more about
Frodi, should listen to [this excellent
interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dAsb2nE_k9g) he did with
Counter-Currents. He is an interesting guy, and I will have more on him
later, but the interview is a good start.

The event started around noon. The location was near to where I was
staying, so I grabbed a taxi from the hotel for the short trip. I
recognized that the driver was Afghani right away. He was listening to a
sermon in Pashto. He was surprised I knew he was from Afghanistan, so we
struck up a conversation. His first question was about Trump and the
Middle East. Having been around these guys enough, I pivoted on that to
talk about how Trump needs to get the troops out of the “graveyard of
empires.”

He was pleased that I knew this about his country. Everyone loves
flattery, even when it comes from the infidel. He then wanted to know if
the Jews would force Trump to go to war with Russia. I got the sense he
was very interested in the end times. He said that in the end, Jesus and
Mohamed would return together. Admittedly, I am not up on all the
strains of Islam, so that puzzled me, but his obsession with the end
times was what concentrated my mind. Our rulers do not have a clue about
who they are importing…

The event was like the others I have attended over the last couple of
years. The crowd was young. The median age was around 30. There were
some grey beards in the audience, but there were a surprising number of
students. Frodi Midjord, the guy who organizes these things, is very
charismatic. He is a working-class guy, at least in his sensibilities,
but he is well read and has an appreciation for learning. I think that
is why he is building up a following. He is easy to like and even easier
to respect.

During the Q&A, Frodi took the opportunity to make a point that I do not
think gets made enough. What he said was that one crazy person in your
movement can chase off hundreds of normal people. Therefore, the top
duty of any political or cultural movement is to guard against being
associated with crazies. This seems obvious to me, but our side of the
great divide has struggled to get this right. The endless purge from the
Buckley Right has somehow made policing the ranks, at least on our side,
a taboos subject…

[Tiina Wiik](https://twitter.com/swanoftuonela?lang=en) is even more
beautiful in person than on YouTube…

A funny thing that struck me is just how far ahead the Euros we are with
regards to identity politics. Jared Taylor made the point that normally,
the more you do something, the better you are at it. Americans have been
dealing with a multi-racial society since the beginning and we just seem
to get dumber at it. The Euros got a good look at multiculturalism and
immediately started forming a political opposition. We are not even
allowed to talk in public about these issues, much less campaign on
immigration moratoriums and repatriation.

I think one reason for this is that Europeans have been dealing with
tribalism for a very long time. Just because the tribes are all white
does not change the fact that the history of Europe is the history of
tribes jostling for space. There is also the fact that the space in
which European national identities developed was a finite space. America
was founded with a frontier culture. If you don’t like things where you
are, [just
move](https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2016/10/us-geographic-mobility/504968/).
This mobile character of Americans means we feel like we have less skin
in the local game.

There is also the fact that tribalism among whites in America has always
been spiritual, rather than ethnic. Northern whites come from a public
Protestant tradition; the Southern whites come from a private Protestant
tradition. Then you have the old Roundhead versus Cavalier issue that
has defined our white identity. Compounding it, of course, has been the
moral dimension of black-white relations since the middle of last
century. The Europeans do not have the sack cloth and ashes of slavery
draped over ever public discussion…

In his talk, Greg Johnson made a subtle but important point that really
needs to be used more often on our side. That is, the Holocaust is a
great example of where diversity and multiculturalism can lead. When a
majority population feels threatened, it can and will turn on minority
populations. Put another way, the Holocaust could not have happened
without a foreign population living in the heart of Europe. It could not
have happened if there had been a country, or even a province, the Jews
could call their homeland…

Jared Taylor pointed out that whites must be gods, because we just must
think about non-whites, and it causes non-whites to harm their own
interests. When you think about it, that is the argument behind the
claims of “whiteness” being the cause of all social strife in America.
Whites just need to show up and their whiteness radiates off them,
causing non-whites to go bonkers and ruin themselves. Whitey shows up
and blacks start committing crimes and destroying their neighborhoods.
Mighty whitey indeed…

The thing you always see at fringe political events is books. In the old
days when I had nothing to do, I would go to commie events at the local
university. There were always people selling books. At lefty events
today it is women sharing their lived experience as some bespoke weirdo
or maybe talking about their autoethnographic research into how they
felt sad over a TV show. At dissident events, the tables are full of
books, old and new, on all sorts of topics. No tackle-faced harpies
screeching about their feelings…

Scandinavian women are haunted by rape fantasies…

Finally, there is a great shadow that hangs over Europe. That shadow is
the American colossus. Much of what bedevils Europe is lunacy hatched in
America and exported to the Europeans. They certainly make it their own,
as we see with the feminization of Scandinavia, but America is the
creator of this great threat to the West and European people everywhere.
Even though they know this, they still look to use for the tools and
language to fight the plague. It makes our fight even more important…
