---
title: "Vertical Thinking"
date: "2018-12-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15694"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15694"
---

Some time ago, someone sent me a link to a news story about vertical
farming, which is a form of urban agriculture. Here is [the
Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vertical_farming) on it and here are
some news stories about it
[here](https://thespoon.tech/ford-motors-is-using-vertical-farming-to-feed-and-educate-detroit/),
[here](https://www.benzinga.com/pressreleases/18/11/g12777596/global-vertical-farming-market-to-2027-by-structure-growth-mechanism-c)
and
[here](https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/11/26/1656325/0/en/Vertical-Farming-developing-sustenance-in-vertical-stacked-layers-set-to-witness-a-CAGR-of-24-9-during-2017-2023.html).
Amusingly, when you dig into the subject, you find that the growth of
vertical farming can be credited to marijuana growers, who used
hydroponic farming to grow weed outside the prying eyes of the man. Big
agriculture is now jumping into the business, to both cut labor cost,
but also transportation costs.

The cost drivers for food production have always been labor, land, and
transportation, so farmers have always looked to technology to mechanize
their process and increase the yield per acre. Getting the result to
market, on the other hand, has always been controlled by distance.
Farmers are way outside the city and the customers are in the city.
Things like motorized transport and refrigeration have had the strange
result of increasing the distance between farm and table. Most city
dwellers have never seen a farm.

Vertical farming not only allows for greater yield per acre, you just
keep growing up, it also allows for the distance between farm and table
to collapse. Vertical farms are just buildings using hydroponics and can
be as tall as you like. Almost every city has an excess of abandoned
warehouse and factory space. Those spaces, in theory, can be turned into
vertical farms. The area around them could literally be turned into
farmers’ markets, where the locals can buy their food from the farmer.

The other twist on this is the growing of food in a building, rather
than out on the land, which makes automation easier. Having robots
roaming around the countryside sounds like fun, but robots break, so
that means people roaming the countryside to fix the robots. In
contrast, an automated warehouse requires just a few people to maintain
the robots, relatively speaking. [A Japanese
firm](https://www.roboticsbusinessreview.com/agriculture/japans_spread_co-_builds_the_biggest_automated_lettuce_farm/)
has built a vertical lettuce farm that is entirely automated. It is a
robot vertical farm that is commercially viable.

It is not much a jump in thought to imagine where this can lead. This
method of food production means that cities could become independent of
the countryside, maybe even become agricultural centers. That means the
interdependence of rural and urban that is enforced and regulated by
government could be broken. That does not mean cities would break from
the countryside, but it means they could survive, at least, if order
breaks down and government is no longer able to maintain the balance.

The science fiction scenario is not such a big leap, if vertical farming
can be what the industry thinks it can be in a few decades. The
cosmopolitans who run the cities and control finance and trade, would
move to seal off the cities from the countryside. Inside we get the
Brave New World of Huxley, while outside we get the depopulated
countryside of John the Savage. The cities would be connected by hyper
loops built by Elon Musk. Port cities will be where goods and services
enter the system from overseas.

As [John Derbyshire remarked at the most recent Mencken
conference](http://www.unz.com/jderbyshire/will-late-mass-democracy-become-1984-or-a-brave-new-world/),
the future imagined by Huxley is not only more likely than that imagined
by Orwell, it is right around the corner. Cities may not become entirely
self-sufficient in the next generation, but the world of work and want
is possibly ending in the West. A lot can happen between now and the
glorious future, like a plague or an unforeseen financial collapse that
upends social order, but the future imagined by Huxley is visible on the
horizon.

There is one problem with all of this, whether it is self-sufficient
cities run by robots, or the future imagined by Huxley. The question is,
what is the point? Ruling elites have the population they need to rule.
They always seek to reduce that which is not useful to their grip on
power. The proliferation of birth control is simply eugenics with a
happy face. Societies to the south are sending their excess population
north because they do not want them. Every African potentate will tell
you. He has too many Africans.

In the robot cities of the future, most of the people would serve no
purpose, so they could be expelled out of the city or recycled for their
mineral content in the vertical farms. At some point, the only useful
people to the ruling elite would be the guards, who defend the city from
the outlanders and expel excess people. Some jobs can never be
automated, at least not in the foreseeable future, so cities would still
have people, just not a lot of them. The logical result of that is much
smaller cities, but that becomes self-defeating.

Just play out the dynamics of the imaginary world of self-sufficient
cities run by robots and it becomes ridiculous in a hurry. The expulsion
of people drives up the population of outlanders and drives down the
population of cosmopolitans. To keep from being overrun, the number of
guards needed by the city must go up. The self-sufficient cities run by
robots eventually become armed camps for no other purpose than to guard
the vertical farms and give the ruling class someone over whom to rule.
It is pointless.

Of course, there is another side to the question. That is, what is the
point of living in the world imagined by Huxley. That is the thing
Derbyshire noted in his talk. People prefer Orwell, because his future
seems like it has a point. There is a reason to live. In the Brave New
World, life is consumption and fornication floating in an ether of soma,
the opioid-like narcotic freely available in Huxley’s future. That is
what makes it so unpleasant for modern readers. Life without purpose is
not utopian. It is dystopian.

As we get closer to that world and drug addiction rates spiral upward,
suicide rates climb higher and now life expectancy is declining, it
suggests there is a stop between here and Huxley’s imagined future. That
is death. Humans, at least Europeans, are not built for captivity. This
reality is probably what is driving the migrant invasions. What is the
point of defending your lands when you have no reason to get up in the
morning? People do not defend land. They defend the life that can be
built and lived on that land.
