---
title: "The New Druze"
date: "2018-02-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-02-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
  - HBD
  - Immigration
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12946"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12946"
---

In the late 10th and early 11th century, a form of mysticism evolved
that incorporated elements of Islam, Greek philosophy, Gnosticism, bits
from other esoteric faiths, which existed in the Mediterranean and the
Middle East. The person credited with spreading this new faith was a guy
named [Muhammad bin Ismail Nashtakin
ad-Darazi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ad-Darazi). He came to Egypt in
1017 and began preaching and attracting converts. He was branded a
heretic and executed in 1018 by [the sixth Fatimid
caliph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Hakim_bi-Amr_Allah).

The Caliph, al-Hakim, was not hostile to the new faith, so much as
hostile to ad-Darazi, who he thought was suffering from megalomania. His
move against ad-Darazi was to put Hamza ibn ‘Ali ibn Ahmad in charge of
this new religious sect, which would eventually be known as Druze.
Despite not being a member of this new religion, the sixth caliph became
a central figure for it. His decision to kill ad-Darazi changed the
nature of the religion and allowed it to spread.

This is an interesting bit of serendipity, but it has a connection to
our own age in a few important ways. The most obvious, if you are a fan
of the period, is al-Hakim is often blamed for starting the
[crusades](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Crusade). His decision to
persecute Christians sent ripples through Europe, eventually leading to
the call to recapture the Holy Land.  There were other forces at work,
but it is generally accepted that al-Hakim played a crucial role in the
clash with Christendom.

Eventually two main strains of Islam came to dominate the Arab world,
while Christianity dominated Europe. The Levant has remained a place
with lots of diversity. The Druze live mostly in Lebanon. The Samaritans
are in the Palestinian territories. Maronites, Eastern Orthodox and
Melkite Catholics exist in Lebanon. Syriac Christians and Alawites exist
in Syria. Of course, various flavors of Judaism dominate in Israel. It
is not an accident that instability is the only constant in the Levant.

That is an obvious lesson when examining this part of the world. If one
wanted proof of the axiom, Diversity + Proximity = Violence, the Levant
has more than enough for any argument. The pathological zeal of Western
leaders for inviting the world into Western lands, can only have one
end. That is the what we see in Lebanon, a country blessed with a great
location, abundant natural resources and natural barriers. Yet, it is a
land riven by sectarian violence and the lack of a unifying identity.

There is another lesson from the history of the Levant and that is the
cauldrons of diversity tend to create more diversity. The reason this
part of the world was popular with schismatics is its diversity
attracted these people. Diversity turns the culture into an open are
market for every idea imaginable. The openness to new ideas is
constantly destabilizing society, open the door for new cracks and
crackpots. Diversity rewards diversity, which makes stability
impossible.

That is something to keep in mind as Europe works to invite the world.
Throw a bunch of people together with a wide range of beliefs and
inevitably it spawns a bunch of new combinations. The flow of Muslims
into Europe, a land that has abandoned Christianity for various secular
passions, is going to spawn new spiritual movements. [The recent
conversion to Islam of an AfD
leader](https://www.thelocal.de/20180124/leading-member-of-far-right-afd-in-brandenburg-converts-to-islam)
is the sort of thing that is happening with increasing frequency. Islam
is now a thing in Europe.

The other aspect to this is the West is now an open country, when it
comes to the religion business. Just as Catholicism faced a dying
collection of pagan beliefs, Islam is now flowing into a world held
together by pointless social fads. The soul of Europe died a long time
ago. To be a European today means to be a deracinated stranger in a land
that is increasingly unfamiliar to you. That makes Europe fertile ground
everyone looking for converts..

That does not mean Europe will be Islamic. Islam always adapts to the
local environment. Islam in Asia is Islam with very Asian
characteristics. Islam in the Caucasus is a mountain man version of
Islam. Biology is the root of everything and that means cultural items
like religion flow from it. The Islamification of Europe will inevitably
result in something that is very European. The Germans will have their
take, the Danes will have theirs and the French will do something
French.

It also means all sorts of other permutation that result from mixing
Western empiricism, Oriental mysticism and traditional Christianity. The
Druze we started with in this post combine Ismailism, Gnosticism,
Neoplatonism, Pythagoreanism and Hinduism. It is an esoteric faith that
is also an ethnicity. The Druze do not accept converts and they do not
allow out-marriage. A person who marries outside the faith is no longer
Druze and their children will not be Druze. Imagine something like that
happening Bulgaria.

The point of this somewhat disjointed post is that Europe is dead. The
civilization that was created by the culture born of the Enlightenment
carries on, but the culture that is the West is dead. Something will
come to replace it and that something will, in whole or part, be carried
by the people now attempting to replace the Europeans. The resulting
culture that rises next will be some combination of the ingredients
being tossed into the cauldron, but it will look nothing like the
ingredients.
