---
title: "Public-Private Tyranny"
date: "2018-08-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14745"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14745"
---

In the 1980’s, the term public-private partnership gained popularity, as
reformers tried to remedy the problems of spiraling public debt and
dwindling public investment in infrastructure. Governments were too
strapped to do things like build roads and schools, so they would alter
the tax and regulatory system to encourage private enterprise to provide
the necessary financing and expertise. A simple example is a city
condemning a slum and then giving it to a private developer to build new
housing.

There is a [formal
definition](https://www.amazon.com/Public-Policy-Analysis-William-Dunn/dp/0205252575)
of the concept. “A public-private partnership involves a private entity
financing, constructing, or managing a project in return for a stream of
payments directly from government or indirectly from users over the life
of the project or some other specified period of time.” The laying down
of cable and then fiber to provide broadband access is a great example
of such an arrangement. The cable company was granted a monopoly and
they built out the infrastructure and charged subscriptions.

In theory, it sounds like a winning formula. Government has no incentive
to be efficient, as government has no competition. Inevitably, this
means government projects become slush funds for the connected and
dumping grounds for the otherwise unemployable. The contractors bidding
on government work or providing a service on behalf of government have
an incentive to keep costs low. Given that future contracts will depend
on performance of current contracts, they have an incentive to hit the
performance goals.

It’s not without its obvious problems. Efforts to reform public
education through public-private partnerships are the obvious example.
The primary reason schools fail is they have poor students. The second
most common reason is they have poor teachers. No amount of private
provision can address the former and public sector unions will never
permit reforming the latter. It is why people move to good neighborhoods
and send their kids to private schools. It’s a private solution to a
private problem.

Of course, public-private partnerships are an effort to address a
symptom of a problem, but not the source of the problem. Democratic
government has no incentive to increase the capital of society, because
office holders are just hired hands. For office holders, government is
like a rental car. The renter does not wash the rental car and get the
oil changed before returning it. Similarly, the office holder has no
reason to improve the part of government he controls, before handing it
over to the next guy.

The key to personal success in public life is quickly turning public
goods into money and benefits that can be used to buy votes. It’s why
state and municipal politicians are fond of increasing public sector
benefits. They get the votes and support for their campaigns, while some
unknown person downstream gets the cost. In a democracy, government
becomes a liquor warehouse during an urban riot. Everyone, even the
honest, has an incentive to rush in and carry off as much as they can as
quickly as they can.

This is obvious, but there are other problems. Humans in all endeavors
seek to prevent competition either through cooperation or domination.
Constitutions and courts are intended to keep the competition for public
offices open and reasonably fair. To the office holder, this is
naturally viewed as a defect that needs to be remedied. That’s where the
public-private partnership comes into the mix. Private firms can do
things office holders are prevented from doing.

This is what we see with the [efforts by the
Democrats](https://www.realclearinvestigations.com/articles/2018/08/13/trump_tower_meeting_looks_increasingly_like_a_setup.html)
to rig the last presidential election and then set Trump up for removal.
Team Obama could not simply have the FBI arrest him and Team Clinton
could not provide electronic surveillance. They formed a public-private
partnership, along with Glenn Simpson to get around both problems. The
private entities would manufacture evidence that the public entity would
use to get warrants, which would result in information they would give
to Clinton and later the FISA court.

One of the worst kept secrets in Washington right now is that elements
inside the Obama administration conspired with the Clinton campaign to
rig the last election. It’s becoming increasingly clear they also
conspired with foreign agents. The Mueller probe is just an elaborate
ruse to shield this truth from the public to preserve the reputation of
the institutions and keep people out of prison. It is the thing everyone
knows, because it is manifestly obvious. What no one knows is what to do
about it.

Then we have the ongoing efforts to shut down political dissent. The law
prohibits politicians from having critics arrested or from shuttering
their publications. The law does not prevent private platforms from
controlling content, thus we get the match made in heaven, from the
perspective of the internet giants and the ruling class. The private
firms get their monopolies protected by the state, while the office
holders get their critics silenced by the internet giants.

It’s not just the first amendment. Gun grabbers have failed for years to
rally public support for gun grabbing. In fact, their efforts to push
through gun bans and confiscation have resulted in booming gun sales and
support for gun liberalization. To address this defect in government,
public officials are now reaching out to their partners in the private
sector to [bankrupt the gun industry and the
NRA](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/nra-sues-new-york-officials-over-blacklisting-campaign/2018/08/03/08a513fe-976e-11e8-818b-e9b7348cd87d_story.html?utm_term=.82556a2fdce4).
It will not be long before owning a firearm could result in you losing
your insurance or bank account.

The funny thing that is happening to our constitutional order is that
the political class seems to understand the defects inherent in the
system but is choosing to make it worse by enlisting private interests
to magnify the defects. They are accelerationists. America is just one
giant bust out, where global companies, with the help of our government,
are systematically looting the country, while undermining the legitimacy
of our system of governance. The public-private partnership has quickly
become a public-private tyranny.
