---
title: "Bum Fight"
date: "2018-06-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14021"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14021"
---

Years ago, I was driving through a rural area in the early evening and
as I came up on what looked like an old store, I saw a small crowd out
front. The place was a broken down old gin mill and the people out front
were watching two scraggly looking drunks duke it out. It was a sad
sight. This was the sum total of two lives, drunk and punching one
another in the face for the amusement of the crowd. That came to mind
reading <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2018/05/american-educated-elite-not-educated-not-elite/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">David French’s critique</a> of <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/28/opinion/failure-educated-elite.html?action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;clickSource=story-heading&amp;module=opinion-c-col-left-region&amp;region=opinion-c-col-left-region&amp;WT.nav=opinion-c-col-left-region"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this column</a> by David Brooks.

French highlights this passage of the Brooks column:

*Once upon a time, white male Protestants ruled the roost. You got into
a fancy school if your father had gone to the fancy school. You got a
job at a white-shoe law firm or climbed the corporate ladder if you
golfed at the right club.*

*Then we smashed all that. We replaced a system based on birth with a
fairer system based on talent. We opened up the universities and the
workplace to Jews, women and minorities. University attendance surged,
creating the most educated generation in history. We created a new
boomer ethos, which was egalitarian (bluejeans everywhere!), socially
conscious (recycling!) and deeply committed to ending bigotry.*

*You’d think all this would have made the U.S. the best governed nation
in history. Instead, inequality rose. Faith in institutions plummeted.
Social trust declined. The federal government became dysfunctional and
society bitterly divided.*

Now, putting aside the ret-conning, you would think French highlighted
this section in order to make the obvious point. That maybe smashing the
old system and turning the institutions over to “Jews, women and
minorities” was the reason for the collapse in social trust, plummeting
faith in institutions and a bitterly divided society. For that matter,
you would think the guy who wrote that passage would have noticed the
obvious link between overthrowing the old order and today’s chaos.

Instead, Brooks goes on to list nonsense reasons like “Inability to
think institutionally” as the cause of the trouble. This is pretty much
the opposite of reality. The managerial class is incapable of anything
other than institutional thinking. The section labeled “Misplaced
idolization of diversity” is nonsensical, but he is not allowed to say
anything but nonsense when it comes to race, so Brooks wants the
managerial elite to go on a team building excursion so they can feel
better about themselves.

For his part, French is even more clueless.

*Combine academic ignorance with a worldview that too often unthinkingly
and reflexively rejects religious traditions and traditional religious
notions of morality, and you’ve got the recipe for exactly the proud,
“elite” individualist Brooks describes. Or, to borrow a biblical
concept, “claiming to be wise, they became fools.”*

*He is right that the “meritocracy is here to stay,” but he’s wrong that
we “need a new ethos to reconfigure it.” An old ethos will do, one
grounded in humility, true curiosity, and an openness to challenging
ideas.*

*It’s not that America’s “educated elite” has truly failed; it’s that
America’s “educated elite” no longer really exists.*

>  

This is a guy who races to the front of the room whenever Conservative
Inc. calls for a two minutes of hate against sexism, antisemitism, or
racism. Conservatism is in free-fall because it has been defiantly
close-minded to ideas that challenge the prevailing orthodoxy. The fact
that the swelling ranks of the Dissident Right see guys like David
French as part of the problem should be a clue, but that would require
true curiosity about what’s going on and an openness to challenging
ideas.

That said, he is not entirely wrong. The managerial state inevitably has
to boil off the people who question the system. This is the iron rule of
institutions. Some small portion care about the mission, but the bulk
are simply their to defend the system and the perks which come from
being a part of it. That’s what has happened in America. The ruling
class is populated with the sorts of people gifted at repeating that
they have been told, but incapable to questioning the status quo. Our
elites are uniformly dull and unimaginative.

That’s why the West in general, but American in particularly is going
through these populist convulsions. The people who run the institutions
are incapable of questioning the logic of the institutions they serve.
Both Brooks and French accept as an axiom that turning things over
to “Jews, women and minorities” is a good in itself. Therefore they
can’t question their role in the current troubles. They are emotionally
wedded to the premise of the so-called meritocracy, so they inevitably
must defend it from all challenges.

Fundamentally, no society can be run on merit. Any system that attempts
to select for ability will inevitably select for that which reinforces
itself. That’s what has happened in post-war America. The institution
grew in size and reach, but their institution knowledge narrowed. The
per capita Federal budget, for example, is three times larger today than
50 years ago, measured in constant dollars. Yet, the differences between
the political parties has never been narrower. That’s why elections have
had no impact on policy.

It’s also why people like French and Brooks worry about the
“dysfunctional federal government and bitterly divided society.” The
populist revolt is a direct challenge to the very idea of a managerial
elite. Trump, for good or ill, is the rejection of that concept. He is
not a man of merit. He is a man of accomplishments, which is a different
thing than a list of credentials. David Brooks can sneer all he likes,
but no one is putting his name on the side of a big building. No one is
asking David French to build their luxury golf resort.
