---
title: "The End Game"
date: "2018-10-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15390"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15390"
---

A popular topic on the Right for a long time has been the looming
economic trouble that everyone agrees is inevitable, due to the
spiraling debt. The political parties lost interest in the debt during
the Obama years, but the problem remains. The Federal government adds
another trillion or so every year and we are just at the start of the
great Baby Boomer retirement, which promises to bankrupt Social Security
and Medicare. All the things Reagan warned about, and did nothing about,
are still there and getting worse every day.

Now, as I mentioned in the podcast last week, one reason no one cares
about this stuff anymore is that nothing ever happens. The politicians
never do anything to address the problem and the warnings about the
disaster never come true. The 2008 mortgage meltdown can probably be
blamed for the public’s indifference to these issues now, and maybe the
politicians too, because the disaster was averted. That problem was
worse than the predictions, but the consequences were nothing like
predicted.

For the Right and increasingly for the Left, the handwringing over the
looming financial troubles has always been a proxy for the general angst
about democracy. After all, the primary driver for the debt trouble is
the public’s insatiable desire for free stuff and the politicians need
to give it to them. The creative ways in which the U.S. government
finances its spending is driven by the need to feed the beast that is
democracy. They say necessity is the mother of invention and we see that
in our fiscal situation.

The thing is though, a financial crash, even a debilitating one, is
never enough to bring down a nation. For example, the Long Depression
lasted in the United States from 1873 to 1896, with the most severe
portion being the first decade. The Great Depression lasted for over a
decade and was followed by a world war. There was never a fear of
revolution in these economic disasters because the public trusted itself
and the institutions of the nation to work through the problems. People
just kept working on the problem until it got better.

Revolts come when people no longer trust their rulers. The king bungles
a series of issues, and the people decide they need a new king. The
ruling class gets reckless and lazy, and they find themselves on the
run. Revolutions come when the system itself is no longer trusted. The
economic crisis that triggers it is just an excuse for doing what people
have been thinking about doing for a long time. The radicals were able
to overthrow the French monarchy because no one could think of a reason
to not overthrow the system.

[That is the dangerous waters we seem to be in
today](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/10/23/former-fed-chairman-paul-volcker-thinks-were-in-a-hell-of-a-mess.html). Now,
elites love to confuse the institutions with the people occupying them.
Despite being replaceable and often replaced, they see themselves as
indispensable. That is just their arrogance, not a sign the public has
lost faith in the system. After all, no one trusts Congress, but the
voters can replace all the congressmen with more trustworthy people in a
series of elections. Is that a loss of faith in the institution or just
the normal process of democracy?

Still, there is a growing distrust of the system, and it is something
you see in the Progressive coalition, Trump voters and the Dissident
Right. The reasons are different, but all around, people are losing
faith in the system itself. Team Brown wants to begin the great
replacement today and they see the system as a hindrance to their
efforts. The MAGA-pedes see the system as an impediment to Trump’s
reform efforts. The Dissident Right sees the system as part of the
cancer that is destroying white society.

Cultural discontent is not a new thing, so it is tempting to think that
we are reliving the period from the 1970’s into the 1980’s. Smart people
in the Nixon years thought the country was headed for civil war. By the
middle of the 1980’s everyone was happy again due to the robust economy.
Trump’s approval rating is his highest as the economy is finally showing
that old dynamism again, but people are even more angry now than before
the election. Maybe [this time is
different](http://www.unz.com/isteve/rising-democratic-extremism/) and a
good economy is not enough.

Of course, the troubles half a century ago were different than today,
despite the similarities. The culture war of the 60’s and 70’s was
between white people in a country that was 90% white. The fight today is
between whites and non-whites in a country rapidly moving to
majority-minority. Then we have the brown waves of migrants washing up
on the southern border, that serve as a daily reminder of what the
future holds for white people. This is a very different crisis than we
saw in the 60’s.

History buffs like to look at the French Revolution for clues as to how
the American experiment ends. The alt-right thinks the interwar period
in Germany is a good model for what comes next. Of course, the Roman
Empire is always a handy example. All of that is probably wrong. In
fact, the alt-right is laughably wrong about what comes next. The better
example may be the Holy Roman Empire. The slow disintegration of that
political construction is a less glamorous story, but it may be a more
relevant one for us

After all, America has always been a multi-cultural empire. It was just
confined to this continent and composed of white people. Even today, the
cultural difference between the people of New England and those of the
Midwest are obvious. The whites of the west coast are wildly different
in temperament than the whites of New York. When someone from the
Northeast visits Texas for the first time, they almost always say that
they feel like they are in a different country. That is because Texas
*is* a different country.

Since Gettysburg, American has been a collection of cultural regions
held together by the Yankee hegemony. The rest of America has functioned
like Puerto Rico to the winners of the Civil War. That is, they retained
some local autonomy but were never allowed to have a say in the big
issues. A fun way to see this is to examine the list of President before
the Civil War and after the Civil War. Heck, the GOP is a party based in
the South and Southwest, yet the President is the quintessential New
Yorker.

Maybe instead of a dramatic collapse or a great revolution, maybe the
future for this empire is to just stagger along from one crisis to the
next, losing a little bit of influence here, a little bit of land over
there. A long, episodic process where the American Empire slowly
disintegrates, returning to its natural parts. A generation from now,
America will be out of Asia. Another generation and Europe is free. All
the while the role of the central government recedes domestically as the
local cultural regions re-assert their authority.
