---
title: "Exiles"
date: "2018-12-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15782"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15782"
---

Exile is a central part of human existence, most certainly as old as
human settlement and probably predating it. Humans are social animals.
Banishment and ostracism are primeval weapons, wielded by human groups
for the worst crimes like sacrilege, murder and subversion. Exile as a
punishment is based on the understanding that much of who we are as a
human is based on our relationship with others. Our role in the group is
who we are, so therefore being forced out of the group is a
nullification of one’s identity.

Death, of course, is the ultimate nullification. For a group of humans
to decide that one of their own must die is the acknowledgement that the
person can never be a part of the group. Who they are is not just out of
sync with the group. It is a danger to the very existence of the group.
Exile, in contrast, assumes the exiled can be reformed. It offers the
exiled at least some opportunity to regain himself and become a part of
the group again. Alternatively, he can find a new group where he
belongs.

While exile is as old as man, it is also as modern as man too. In fact,
we would not have modernity without the prominent role of exiles in the
human story. The Bolsheviks, for example, came out of exile to rock the
old order and begin close to a century of struggle in the West. The
Iranian revolution was engineered by exiles, who ushered in half a
century of unrest in the Muslim world. Of course, America was born as an
enclave for exiles, men divorced from the old country and starting new
in the wilderness.

A useful way to understand the role of exile in shaping the West is to
think about the birth of conservatism in Europe. Unlike everything else
in modern thought, it was not the result of the Enlightenment, but
rather a consequence of the French Revolution. The destruction, terror
and wars that resulted from the revolution, created a generation of
exiles, divorced from their lands, their people and their way of life.
Their struggle to understand the revolution and formulate a response,
was the birth of conservatism in the West.

Today, of course, there is never any discussion of how the revolution
transformed the aristocracy of Europe. The radicals who rule over the
West, like chimps looking in a mirror, can never stop obsessing over
their antecedents. The revolution, however, fundamentally altered the
elite of Europe. There were the material changes, of course, as they
were forced to abandon their lands and flee to neighboring lands. There
were also spiritual and intellectual changes that resulted in being
exiled from their homes.

The French aristocrat living in Vienna, for example, suddenly found
himself around a new elite, with different habits and different tastes.
This sudden juxtaposition gave these aristocrats a new perspective on
their own culture. Prior to exile, they had no reason to think about why
they lived as they did. It was just the way things were as they entered
the world. In exile, they had to examine why it was their way of life
existed, why they existed, and why it was swept away by the revolution.

In other words, exile created a romanticism for that lost past, but also
an intellectual framework to understand how that old order was lost and
how best to respond to the radicalism that was unleashed on society.
Further, the restoration cemented the point that the old order was gone
for good. The saying among conservatives at the time was that the
restored king Louis XVIII was not sitting on the Bourbon throne, he was
sitting on the throne of Napoleon. It was an acknowledgement that there
was no going back.

In this age, exile explains why northern conservatism was a shabby
response to northern radicalism. The conservative was not the result of
exile. He was always as much a part of the ruling ethos as the radical.
The relationship between the American conservative and the American
radical was always as co-dependents. The radical needed the conservative
as a foil, while the conservative needed the radical for a reason to
exist. Without one, the other could never exist as an independent mode
of thought.

The closest America has come to having an authentic conservatism was in
the South where the conquered and displaced planter class had to
reconcile the loss of their past with a way forward as a regional elite.
It never really worked, as there could never be a restoration, even an
artificial one. The anathematization of Southern culture has been so
thorough and complete in the 20th century, that now the very symbols of
it are treated as an affront to public morality. That aristocracy was
exterminated, not exiled.

What may be happening in this age of cultural upheaval, however, is the
birth of a new class of exiles. White men of the older generation are
seeing the world in which they were born slowly succumbing to the
darkness of multiculturalism. Theirs is not a romanticism for that old
age, but a growing anger at its loss. The baby Boomer conservative takes
a lot of grief, and deservedly so, but every day that group inches
closer toward identity politics as the only available response to the
gathering darkness.

In the younger generations, there can be no romanticism or an angry
response to the loss of old white America. Instead, there is an
acceptance that old white America can never be restored. There is also a
reconsideration of what created mid-century America and what sent it
rocketing into the abyss of self-abnegation. These are the new exiles,
divorced from the past, cut off from their culture and hounded by the
radicals of this revolution, as the aristocrats of France were hounded
by the Jacobins.

The defect in the conservative response to 18th century radicalism was
it could never get past its own romanticism. The conservatives of that
age were still surrounded by the results of their lost culture. In every
city center, in every local village, they were reminded of the glorious
past. As a result, the conservatism of Europe was always destined to be
a compromise with radicalism. Constitutional monarchy was an effort to
retain the spirit of the past, inhabiting the sterile, lifeless body of
social democracy.

This generation of exiles will have the benefit of not living in a
museum. In a way, the radical destruction of the symbols and language of
old white America is doing a service to the exiles of today and
tomorrow. Without the ghosts of the past, clawing at the present, the
response to today’s radicalism can be independent and new. Today’s exile
will not be animated by a longing for a lost past but instead be haunted
by the unrealized present and an anger at the radicals who foreclosed
his future.
