---
title: "The Marie Antoinettes"
date: "2018-01-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-01-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=12739"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=12739"
---

I was watching the sports ball games over the weekend and [this
ad](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ZMZuKqU9d8) for the US Marine Corps
kept popping up during the broadcast. I do not watch a lot of television
so I am late to the party on this. [It appears the ad was cut last
spring](https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2017/05/12/528129573/marines-release-first-ever-ad-spotlighting-woman-in-combat-position).
My first reaction was, “Why would anyone send soccer moms into combat?”
That is what it looks like in the video. The actress looks like she is
an office clerk playing paintball at the company retreat. My second
thought was, “Who do they think is watching this stuff?”

The answer to the last question is they simply do not know who is
watching this stuff. They just imagine who they *hope* is watching it.
The fact is the people who rule over us no longer know much about us.
The Marines are not as bad as the other branches, but they too are
staggering around in the thick fog of the estrogen laced miasma known as
multiculturalism. That means they are slowly detaching from reality,
confusing the much dreamed for future with present reality. They think
G.I. Jane is real.

This confusion between what they wish for and what is present reality is
all over the mass media. Most TV ads now have race mixing, despite the
fact it remains relatively rare in American society. According to TV,
the average American family is a black guy with a white wife and two
Asian kids. Because Progressives are so fixated on whatever they
currently imagine as Utopia, they inevitably begin to confuse their
dreamed for world with the real world. You can see that in this
[Washington Post infographic
story](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2018/national/what-unites-us/?hpid=hp_rhp-top-table-main_wuu-singlefeature-830am%3Ahomepage%2Fstory&utm_term=.8d94795d93c3).

The short setup tells you right away that the people who put this
together are not living in the same America as the rest of us. “We asked
people to contemplate what it means to be American in this time of
upheaval and rapid change” is not a statement about present reality. The
last eight years were a period of turmoil and upheaval. What is going on
now is a return to something close to normalcy, but to the cult of rage
heads determined to smash up American society, order and normalcy is
what they imagine to be Hell.

Notice how they say that 102 randomly selected people speak for the rest
of us. That is because they look at people as talking meat sticks. For
all their talk of diversity, they think there is no difference between a
Yankee plumber and Arab goatherd. We are all just talking monkeys to
them. Worse yet, they are so arrogant that they think they can round up
a hundred or so opinions and figure out what the rest of us are thinking
from that random sample. These people look at us as zoo animals and they
are our keepers.

The real tell is the complexion of the images in the graphic. They think
the great brown future is already here. I went through the pictures and
did a rough, back of the envelope census. The break down: 42% white, 8%
Jewish, 21% black, 6% Asian, 11% Hispanic and 12% other, which is
Muslims, Indians and Amerinds. What this reveals is just how much the
typical Washington Post employee hates white people. They can barely
stand to look at us, much less ask our opinion. Of course, they really
hate white men.

Also note the obsession with people being united. This is the hallmark
of the religious fanatic. The fanatic sees any deviation from the
permissible as an assault on the order they imagine as perfection. The
popular conception of fascists is they were people who violently oppose
coloring outside the lines. It is once again an example of how the Left
conjures demons that reflect its true soul. For Lefty, the dream is a
world where everyone thinks and acts exactly as there are required, to
serve the Great Hive.

What this post story and the tidal wave of idiotic media ads reveals,
though, is what the people in charge currently imagine as the glorious
future. The utopian minded are sure that the promised land is just over
the next hill. In the case of the lunatics ruling over us, they believe
the future is a land full of mulattoes, who have internalized the
lessons of the one true faith to the point where they no longer possess
an individual self. America is just one big petting zoo designed so
corpulent cosmopolitans can have a variety of restaurants.

The old paleocons like Sam Francis and Joe Sobran, were heavily
influenced by James Burnham. They looked at American elites as an
emerging managerial class. They were mostly right about the contours of
the new ruling class, but the one thing they could not get right is the
sharp disconnect between the current ruling elite and the public. The
managerial state cannot withstand contact with reality, so it seeks to
insulate itself from it. Walk onto a college campus or government
compound and you are no longer in America.

That is because the people who rule over us are no longer Americans. You
see that in the reactions to Trump and the new populism. The elites of
both parties are so sure Trump is backed by foreigners, because the
things Trump says and does are completely alien to the elites of both
parties. Paul Ryan and Nancy Pelosi would be more comfortable around
Trump is he was a talking lizard man. A space alien would make more
sense to them than a white person expecting his government to look out
for his interests.

Circling back to those ads we see on mass media and stories like the one
I linked, it is not as much about proselytizing with these people as it
is about make believe. The all white ad companies making these ads are
not promoting miscegenation. They imagine that as the future and they
want so deeply to believe that the masses want that future, they are
incapable of portraying reality. With few exceptions, we are ruled over
by a class of people with the same grasp of reality as Marie Antoinette.
