---
title: "In Defense Of Kevin Williamson"
date: "2018-04-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-04-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13425"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13425"
---

I’ve made no bones about the fact I don’t like Kevin Williamson. I’ve
called him “Sloppy Williamson” and a “gold-plated phony” for years. I
think his quill pen act is just that, an act intended to make his
otherwise mediocre views appear sophisticated. I know that is probably
unfair of me, but some people just bug the crap out of me and Williamson
is one of them. I fully accept that I could be wrong in my opinion.

The point is, I take a back seat to no man in my disdain for Williamson
and all of the Buckleyite-Conservatarian-Libertarian cabal. To borrow a
Derb phrase, I’m a low number hater on this score. That said, <a
href="https://www.thewrap.com/conservative-commentator-kevin-williamson-fired-atlantic-abortion-podcast-surfaces/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">what the Atlantic Magazine has done to
Kevin Williamson</a> is despicable. In fact, it looks like they plotted
it, hiring the guy knowing they would soon fire him, because the
lunatics would start howling. Even if the execrable Jeffrey Goldberg
simply folded to pressure, firing Williamson is immoral.

Kevin Williamson is a guy with bills and responsibilities. He needs an
income like most everyone else in this world. Firing someone is never
something to be taken lightly, because it is a life altering experience.
To hire a guy away from one company, only to fire him a week later, is
to recklessly cause harm to another, for no other reasons than a failure
to do your job. If Jeffrey Goldberg was really upset by his hiring of
Williamson, he should have quit as editor-in-chief, but that would
require personal integrity.

There’s a larger point here. The Atlantic is basically succumbing to the
mob, one that is most likely entirely artificial. It is the ultimate
heckler’s veto. A relatively tiny cabal of lunatics get to determine who
is and who is not allowed on the public stage. It’s exactly what can
never be allowed to happen if you want a civil society. The reason is,
torch wielding mobs encourage the formation of counter mobs, who see
that their only rational option is to meet force with force.

Just as important, from our perspective, is what our Progressive
oppressors are trying to establish with this move. All of a sudden, a
guy who is slightly to the right of center – maybe – is now beyond the
pale. Williamson’s views on social issues like abortion and gender
delusions are held by the majority of Americans. What this is about is a
new push by our oppressors to make any criticism of their increasingly
deranged opinions a disqualifying act. If Williamson can’t get work,
imagine what happens to us.

One of the great mistakes of the Buckleyites has been to think they can
cut a deal with the Left, by purging people to their right. The various
groups in polite conservative circles have been silent as people on our
side have been systematically attacked by the orthodoxy and shut out of
public debate. Now they find themselves facing the same challenge. Kevin
Williamson has just learned that no matter how much he disavowed our
side, Progressives would never accept him.

Welcome to the party pal.

Edit: I dashed this off in five minutes, so I was not clear on a couple
of things. One is the dumb cuck had it coming. If you get in bed with
Lefty, expect to wake up with a lot of problems. The other thing is
these guys give legitimacy to Progressive media by going on their
platforms, so I have no sympathy for them when they get thrown off of
them. I just wanted to make the point that we either have a public
square or we have mob rule. I’m good with either, but I don’t think the
people in charge want the latter.
