---
title: "The Soundtrack Of This Age"
date: "2018-03-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-03-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13188"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13188"
---

When I was a boy, my grandfather would tool around in his car listening
to big band music or classical. The former was the music of his youth,
while the latter was what he thought sophisticated people liked. He was
not wrong about that. In his youth, the kind of music you could dance to
was for proles, while the sophisticated people appreciated classical and
opera. It was not as clear cut as that, but the early 20th century was a
time when people still looked up for guidance and inspiration. That
included entertainment.

The thing I always hated hearing from my grandfather was how modern
music was terrible and not fit for civilized people. He was a man of his
age and class, so he used colorful euphemisms to describe popular music.
Even as a kid, I understood that every generation has their soundtrack.
Maybe never having known anything but a world where pop culture
dominated, this came naturally to me, while my grandfather still
recalled an age before everyone had a radio and television. Maybe he
knew things I could not know.

Either way, I have always just assumed that once I passed my mid-20’s,
pop music was no longer for me. Some stuff would be appealing, but most
would be aimed at kids and strike me as simplistic and repetitive. There
were some good bands in the 90’s that I liked, but most of it was not my
thing. By the 2000’s, I was unable to name popular groups or the songs
at the top of the charts. Today, I have not heard a single note from any
song on the [current
top-40](https://www.at40.com/charts/top-40-238/latest/). On the other
hand, I am sure I have heard some version of all of it.

[That may be why music sales have
collapsed](http://www.showbiz411.com/2018/03/13/record-sales-plunge-as-top-artists-justin-timberlake-u2-even-taylor-swift-sell-fractions-of-previous-numbers).
A 15-year old can go on YouTube or Spotify and find fifty versions of
the current pop hits, gong back before their parents were born. They can
also find stuff from previous eras that was remarkably well done and
performed by people with real talent. Justin Timberlake may be talented
as a singer, but no one is confusing him with Frank Sinatra. It is
simply a lot easier for young people to see that pop music is just
manufactured pap from Acme Global Corp.

That is another thing that may be plaguing pop culture in general and
pop music in particular. When I was a teen, your music said something
about you because you felt a connection to the band. In the sterile
transactional world of today, no one feels an attachment to anything,
much less the latest pop group. There is no sense of obligation to buy
or listen to their latest release. Supporting a type of music or a
specific act is no longer a part of kid’s identity. The relationship is
now as sterile as society.

That is the funny thing about pop culture in our Progressive paradise.
It is a lot like the pop music of totalitarian paradises of the past.
The Soviets manufactured their version of Western pop, but it was never
popular. Just as we see at the Super Bowl, comrades can be forced
marched to an arena and made to cheer, but no one really liked it. There
is a lot of that today, as every pop star has the exact same Progressive
politics and uses their act to proselytize on behalf of the faith. That
is not a coincidence. It is by design.

The West does not have a competitor that embraces freedom and liberty,
so the past has become the competition. Look at YouTube and you will see
that old songs and bands have enormous amounts of traffic. Given that
the people who listened to Sinatra in their prime are mostly dead, it
must be younger people discovering and enjoying the old stuff from when
the West was still in love with itself. I have often been surprised to
see young people, particularly young men, into music that pre-dates me,
but it is common.

As an aside, I include music clips in my podcast, mostly to break things
up, but also to entertain myself with inside jokes. The number one
question I get from people is about the music. Every week I get e-mails
asking about some clip and the e-mail is always from a younger person.
If I use a clip from an old crooner, I get compliments from people of
all ages. Nostalgia certainly plays some role, but most of it is people
looking for enjoyable music, because the current popular music just does
not work for them.

What is happening to pop culture reflects our age. We have been turned
into Pandas by a smothering, soft totalitarianism. The feminization of
the culture means we are ruled by mothers, who refuse to ever let us
wander from the nest, physically, spiritually, creatively or
intellectually. That has had all sorts of effects, like [the drop in
sperm
counts](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-sperm/sperm-count-falling-sharply-in-developed-world-researchers-say-idUSKBN1AA28K)
and the collapse of popular culture. A deracinated people, kept in adult
daycare centers and tended to by belligerent spinsters is not going to
have a lot to celebrate or live for.

The great philosopher Homer Simpson said, “Why do you need new bands?
Everyone knows rock attained perfection in 1974. It’s a scientific
fact.”  There is a lot of truth to that as [per capita music sales
peaked in the 70’s](http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=4463) and began a
decline until CD’s forced everyone to repurchase their music. But that
peaked in the late 90’s and there has been a precipitous decline ever
since. Two factors driving it would be demographics and the fact that
our most musical people, blacks and Jews, no longer play instruments.

Pop music is not art, but like art it does hold a mirror up to society.
In the heyday of pop music, the society it reflected was one that was
optimistic and happy. Today, the society it reflects is the gray,
featureless slurry of multiculturalism and the vinegar drinking scolds
who impose it on us. It is not that it is low quality or offensive. It
is that the music is a lot like the modern parking lot. It is row after
row of dreary sameness. Like everything in this age, popular music has
the soul of the machine that made it.
