---
title: "The Narcotic of Minor Celebrity"
date: "2018-05-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13732"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13732"
---

Last year I started showing up at dissident events and I started to
interact with some of the important figures on-line. The main reason was
to get to know some of these people a little better. You get a better
sense of people when you see them in person and interact with them.
Frankly, I figured if I was getting quoted and linked to by people in
this thing, I should meet them and get to know them. It turned out that
many of these people wanted to meet me.

Now, I am no rock star, so it is not as if people are chasing me down
the street looking for a selfie or autograph. Even so, it is flattering
to have someone walk up to you and thank you for your efforts. I was
approached at a bagel shop recently by someone who recognized my voice
and decided to see if I was the man behind the voice. I am not
particularly good at handling these encounters. I usually resort to
false modesty, as I do not have a lot of experience with it. I also have
no great desire to be famous.

Now, there are famous people who are incredibly good at being famous.
They enjoy it and they know how to handle it. I once saw a famous guy do
selfies for fans, while carrying on a conversation with a friend. My
guess is that the truly famous, the people most everyone recognizes,
look at celebrity in the same way that most of us look at filling out a
time sheet or an expense report. It is just a part of the job. Those
fans asking for selfies are just part of the package.

On the other hand, minor celebrities are obsessed with getting noticed.
A guy like Milo is a good example. His glib homosexual routine was a
good compliment to his writing at Breitbart, but then he got a little
famous. The desire to see himself on TV and internet had him doing
increasingly nutty things to get attention. Whether you are a fan of
Milo or not, he has real talent, but [it has come to a sad end for
him](https://www.politico.com/story/2018/04/27/yiannopoulos-business-implodes-after-death-of-crypto-billionaire-557456).
His desire for fame exceeded his ability to maintain it.

Milo’s story arc is a familiar one, but the proliferation of social
media has brought a new version of this, the e-celeb. Mike Cernovich is
probably the best example. He has no real talent for anything, as far as
anyone knows, but he is good at getting attention on social media. One
of the things you cannot help but notice is how much he obsesses over
his follower count and impressions on Twitter. Followers and friends are
the coin of the realm, so all of the internet celebrities focus on
growing those numbers.

This lust for recognition is certainly at the root of the endless
in-fighting we see among the alt-right personalities. An alt-right
person gets some traffic to their YouTube channel and before long they
are picking fights with everyone, they used to call allies. Because the
drama results in more traffic, it becomes a feedback loop. The uptick in
traffic releases endorphins in the brain of the e-celeb. It is like
crystal meth for these guys as each hit increases their craving for the
next hit.

Another side of this is the leaders are picked from the pool of people
desperate for attention. Some glib or photogenic person pops up on
social media and they attract a crowd. Before long, the other e-celebs
are inviting him onto their platforms to get some secondhand traffic.
The result is the influential people are being selected for their vanity
and lust for celebrity, rather than intelligence or mental stability.
That is why more than a few weirdos have turned up as alt-right
celebrities.

It is possible that this benefits dissident politics eventually. The
dominant media has a filtering mechanism to make sure no one with
unclean thoughts ever gets access to their platforms. The result is a
dreary sameness. The [breathtaking lack of
self-awareness](http://takimag.com/article/enumerating_jews_steve_sailer/print#axzz5EElzyqy7)
scares off more people than it convinces. The people who survive the
e-celeb gauntlet and establish themselves as trusted voices could turn
out to be much shrewder and savvier as a result of it.

A guy like Nick Fuentes is a good example. He has a creepy maturity to
him that has gained him a lot of attention. He is like Bill Mitchell in
a child’s body. He is an alt-right version of the movie
[Big](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_(film)). While he does a fine
job on his YouTube shows, he often goes onto social media and
posts [stupid and childish things](https://gab.ai/NickJFuentes). People
who talk about their IQ on social media tend to be mentally unstable. On
the other hand, Fuentes is a kid so maybe he figures it out and gets
better.

That said, it could be that new media and social media have evolved in a
way that allows the people in charge to keep challengers out on the
fringe. Instead of smart subversives quietly doing what it takes to
weasel into the orthodoxy, they are having purse fights with e-celebs
and disqualifying themselves in the process. Since your internet
activity is now part of your permanent record, all those youthful
mistakes will later be used against you as an adult.

In other words, YouTube is a
[favela](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwij6r77seraAhULnOAKHTvjDUcQFgg5MAE&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FFavela&usg=AOvVaw0Sr-G47r7zAE2kNDxSzTdW)
for political and cultural dissidents. The people dominating the space
will be narcissistic attention whores, willing to do and say anything to
get views. The result is they drive out anyone with ability, so outsider
politics remains a land of unwanted toys. The narcotic of minor
celebrity is not a byproduct of the communications revolution, but a
product of design. Either way, the narcotic of minor celebrity is the
new opiate of the masses.
