---
title: "The Ideological State"
date: "2018-07-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-07-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14527"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14527"
---

Civic nationalism is an effort to define a nation ideologically, rather
than biologically and geographically. Up until the French Revolution, a
nation was primarily a related group of people with a common language,
culture, and history. The French were not defined by geography or
ideology, but by blood. The lands they occupied were French lands
because French people occupied them. The people were loyal to themselves
and, by extension, a king, whose duty was to defend the interests of his
people.

The French Revolution changed that as a nation came to be defined by
geography and ideology. The challenge of replacing private government,
where a king defends his lands and the land of his people, is in finding
something to replace the basis of loyalty. That is where the civic
religion comes into the mix. Instead of people giving their soul to God
and their sword to the king, both are pledged to the new civic religion,
where the state is the object of worship and veneration. Citizenship
becomes a sacred duty.

The Enlightenment ideas about public government were, of course, a
reaction to the defects of the aristocratic regime. A good king makes
for the best form of government, but a terrible king, who is greedy or
stupid, makes for the worst form of government. The former advances the
peace and prosperity of his people, while the latter damages it. Placing
the fate of the people on luck, hoping the next king turns out to have
the right mix of qualities for the age, seems like a rather silly way to
run a society, when you think about it.

Public government addresses that by giving the people an organized way
to get rid of bad rulers and change public policy. The trouble with
public government is the same trouble we see with public property. When
no one owns something, no one has an incentive to sacrifice for it or
invest in it. The tragedy of the commons applies to all public goods,
including government. The solution is the civic religion, where the
identity of the citizen is tied to the success of the state. The state
becomes the altar of the people.

This is why, in our current age, the ruling class drones on endlessly
about democracy and the alleged threats to democracy. They do not use
the word democracy to mean people voting on public policy. They mean it
as a synonym for the neo-liberal order and the cosmopolitan ideology
that animates it. It is why the wrong person winning an election is a
threat to democracy, while the right person winning is a celebration of
democracy. It is also why the coup plotters in the FBI still feel smugly
justified in their actions.

Ideological nations have two problems. One is they must endlessly whip
the citizens into a fervor in order to keep them loyal to the state.
Religions have the same challenge, which is why the preacher is always
warning about some imminent threat to your soul or reminding everyone
about God’s wrath. Piety is a full-time commitment and that applies to
civic piety, as well. It is why communist countries are drenched in
patriotic symbols, songs, and public performances, designed to keep
everyone in a heightened state of ideological frenzy.

The other problem, a consequence of the demands of piety, is they become
ruthlessly intolerant of dissent. “All within the state, nothing outside
the state, nothing against the state” becomes the mantra of every nation
built on ideology. If people are allowed to question the ideology that
organizes the state, they are doubting the project itself and this must
be viewed as a threat to the state. Therefore, civic religions must
always become increasingly intolerant and narrow, in order to defend the
state against challenges.

This is why the two great industrial wars of the 20th century were blood
baths. When one tribe fights another for access to the river, they just
want access to the river. They see each other as competitors for a
resource. Compromise and mercy are possible because their conflict is
not personal. They may work up a good hatred for the other people in
order to screw up their courage, but that is a fanaticism of temporary
necessity. Once the material dispute is resolved, the people have no
reason to hate one another.

When two people make war over religion, because they see one another as
an abomination or a direct threat to what defines them as a people, the
conflict must be a fight to the death. There can be no mercy toward that
which threatens your existence. This also means no limits. The total
wars of the 20th made perfect sense to the combatants because they saw
the other side as devoted to evil. Incinerating a city is perfectly
reasonable if you think the people in it are evil, because they support
an evil ideology.

Again, this is something we see in our own time. Social media is full of
post by Progressive fanatics, celebrating violence against people they
call Nazis. It is not that these victims are actual Nazis, of course. It
is just that the word now means “evil people” who the pious see as a
threat to their existence. By definition, the pious must never show
mercy to evil, as to do so means accepting that there is some virtue in
the evil people that is worth preserving. Piety demands no mercy be
given to the impious.

Now, the American ruling elite, for the last 75 years or so, has claimed
that rather than being a nation defined by blood and soil, America is a
nation defined by allegiance to a set of ideals, the American creed.
That way, anyone who wanders in can be a citizen, as long as he pledges
allegiance to those ideals. This was a post hoc justification for mass
immigration in the early 20th century and a way to include the sons of
recent immigrants into the national mythology. It sacralized the
immigrant as the ultimate American.

In fact, Americans are now [more loyal to
foreigners](https://news.gallup.com/poll/235793/record-high-americans-say-immigration-good-thing.aspx)
than to one another. It seems that a third defect of the ideological
state is that the ideology evolves a hatred of itself. Something similar
has happened in Europe. The EU is, after all, an effort to apply the
lessons of America to the European continent. Instead of defining the
people biologically and geographically, a European will be an idea. In
Europe and America, the idea of citizenship has curdled into
self-loathing. What defines the people is their hatred of themselves.

This is not correctable. People join a cause or a movement in order to
swap their individual identity for that of the group. In other words,
people are driven to ideology out of self-loathing. A society based on
ideology must therefore reward those most riddled with doubt and
celebrate self-loathing as the highest virtue. The ideological state,
regardless of design, must always become a suicide cult. It
simultaneously boils off the skeptical and rewards the most fanatical. A
society run by fanatics always ends up in a blood bath.
