---
title: "Letter To The CivNats"
date: "2018-09-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-09-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15176"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15176"
---

One of the strange aspects of the last century of American politics is
that the defining arguments have all happened on the losing side. The
winners have always been sure about what they want and what they are
willing to do to get it. It is the losers who have always been
squabbling with one another about the proper response or the meaning of
the latest failure. National Review types always used to argue that all
the interesting debates were on their side, rather than on the side of
their alleged adversaries.

They were not wrong about that, even though they were deluded about who
they were really fighting. For at least forty years and maybe longer,
all the arguments have been on the Right. That is the thing though, they
were always fighting the people to their right, the people now forming
the new opposition. It is easy to get down about what is happening in
our time, but the one thing we can point to is that there is an
authentic alternative forming up now. The veil has been lifted for more
of us now than any time in the past.

Of course, we remain a tiny minority, even within the white population.
George Hawley, the left-wing college professor from the University of
Alabama, estimates that the dissident population is in the 6% range,
which would be about ten percent of the white population, give or take.
Greg Hood, the main writer at American Renaissance, is bit more
optimistic, as he thinks the data says there are many more “leaners” in
the population, but his number is still small. You can read [Greg’s
review of Hawley’s numbers
here](https://www.amren.com/commentary/2018/09/who-are-the-white-dissidents/).

The point is most white people remain in the civic nationalist camp.
About 25% of whites identify as Progressive, so that leaves about 65% in
the civic nationalist, dissident right and indifferent buckets. This is
what the alt-right learned the hard way two summers ago. They held a
rally and 500 people showed up, but 2,000 opponents showed up. Many of
those protesting the alt-right were MAGA hat wearing CivNats. Even more
crucial, s solid plurality of white people blamed both sides for the
violence.

It is why the math of democracy makes white survival an impossibility.
That 25% of whites who lock arms with the 40% who are non-white gets the
anti-whites close enough to a permanent majority that they are the
default option in an election. It is why they put all their energy into
making sure blacks, Jews, migrants, and lesbians are super-angry. The
left just needs the turnout, and they win. They know the math of
democracy too. That means the future is the Kavanaugh hearings over and
over until you are dead.

That is the lesson and the reason for this letter. The civic
nationalists need to look at that circus on their television and know
that is their future. The people who are rejecting due process and the
presumption of innocence do not look like you. They do not sound like
you. They do not believe what you believe. More important, they do not
love what you love or hate what you hate. What they are willing to live
and die for does not include you, because you do not look like them or
sound like them. You can never be on their side, and they know it.

When you appeal to their sense of civic virtue, all you are doing is
encouraging them to punch you in the face again. That is because their
civic virtue is not *your* civic virtue. It can never be otherwise.
After decades of work to train blacks, for example, to embrace civic
nationalism, they still cling to their own ideas and their own hatreds.
It turns out that those racists you guys were always trying to run off
were right after all. Civil society is a white man’s thing. It is not an
idea. It is the result of white people living in their own lands.

Now, I know a lot of civic nationalists. Many of them post comments
here. Some of my best friends are civic nationalists. Many will beg at
the tiny feet of Ben Shapiro, convinced it is ideology, not race, until
he slams the oven door on them. Just look at South Africa, where whites
are being slaughtered by blacks. Yet, many whites refuse to accept the
reality of their situation. The father of Mollie Tibbetts, the white
girl murdered by an invader, [cares more of his civic virtue than his
own
child](https://www.cnn.com/2018/09/02/us/mollie-tibbetts-father-op-ed/index.html).
Some people cannot be saved.

On the other hand, if you are watching this circus in Washington and
wondering if it is all coming apart, you may want to take a moment and
look hard at the scene. It is a white man going through trial by ordeal,
something white people banned 1500 years ago. The people putting him
through that ordeal do not look like you. They do not believe what you
believe. They mock what you believe. They think things like due process
and rule of law are the *white man’s law*, not their law. *Their law* is
what you see on your television.

You need to ask yourself, is there really any way to tame them that has
not already been tried? Is there an argument that is going to cause
[Debra
Katz](https://forward.com/news/national/411057/holocaust-survivors-led-christine-blasey-fords-lawyer-debra-katz-to/)
or [Michael
Bromwich](https://www.businessinsider.com/christine-blasey-fords-lawyer-resigned-from-law-firm-to-represent-her-2018-9)
to reconsider their war on white people? Will Maxine Waters or Kamala
Harris ever agree with you? You sat and watched Judge Kavanaugh give a
stirring speech in defense of decency and civic justice that Cicero
would have found moving. Think about all that has been said and written
in favor of civil nationalism, yet here we are anyway.

More important and this is where you as a civic nationalist either head
down the road to Damascus or heads into the darkness. Look at the fruits
of civic nationalism. The champions of the constitutional order and rule
of law are all sitting on the Republican side, getting rolled by the
non-white rage heads responsible for this circus. The professional civic
nationalists have built out a well-financed system to promote your
cause. Yet here they are getting clobbered again. If they cannot win
this fight, what can they win?

Look. I get it. In your heart you know our side is right about “the race
stuff.”. It is why you moved to a neighborhood with good schools and a
bad basketball team. It is why you support Israel and oppose Islam. You
know that only in a society run by white men, can there be anything
resembling civil order. You hate yourself for it, so you have created
all sorts of ways to show you are not an anti-Semite or conceal your
real feelings toward blacks. It is hard to put down that steamer trunk
of guilt you have been taught to carry.

I get it. All of us on this side of the great divide get it. All of us
have made the journey you will have to make. It is not easy to accept
that all the stuff you have been taught about the constitution and
patriotism was just a way to blind you to the approaching darkness. Now
you have a chance to open your eyes and see what comes next if you do
not begin your journey to this side. That circus on your television is
not going to just fade away. it is a glimpse into the future, of your
children’s future and your grandchildren’s future.

No matter what you choose, the years ahead will be every bit as ugly as
the spectacle unfolding on our televisions and on social media. The
Great Brown Army believes this is their time to the destroy the white
patriarchy, by which they mean white America. The fight to stop it is
going to ugly and you will have to get used to thinking about things in
a way that used to feel wrong. But the fight is going to happen whether
you snap out of your daze or remain in the CivNat delusion. The question
before you is which side are you on?
