---
title: "The Reforms Of Z-Man"
date: "2018-12-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15787"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15787"
---

In the 6th century BC, many Greek city-states were succumbing to one man
rule, which they called tyrants. Today the word conjures images of a
ruthless and cruel autocrat, but in that time is simply meant a
dictator. The reason for this would be familiar to anyone living today.
The elite gained an economic stranglehold on society and used it to
subvert the political system. The great inequality in Athenian life
meant that the bulk of the citizens were becoming victims of a predatory
elite.

To avoid what was happening in other city-states, the Athenians decided
they had to reform their society but could not trust the existing elites
to do it. Instead, they turned to the wisest man of their age, a man
named [Solon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solon), who is remembered
today as one of the Seven Sages of Greece. He was given temporary
dictatorial powers to push through economic, political, and moral
reforms. The goal of these reforms was to address economic equality and
restore political stability, to avoid tyranny.

If we look around at America today, the similarities are obvious.
Instead of rich landowners preying on the populace, it is a handful of
megalomaniacs, who rule from atop global corporations and hedge funds.
The normal democratic system of governance has broken down, so that the
desires of the people are ignored, while the small donor class wields
the state as a weapon against the people. Another weapon against the
people is a vulgar popular culture, aimed at undermining public dignity
and self-respect.

Clearly, reform is needed. Increasingly, people are coming around to the
idea that what is needed is a Pinochet, who will fumigate the political
class and deal harshly with the moral and economic predators currently
atop the system. It is why calling Trump a dictator has only helped his
cause. The people who voted for him are not so sure it would be a bad
idea if he assumed dictatorial power. In the spirit of Solon, are there
reforms that could be implemented to arrest the decline into tyranny?

The first thing to acknowledge is that “get back to our constitutional
roots” is the sort of thing a moron mutters to himself while watching
the news. The people saying this really should be rounded up and shipped
off to Africa, where they could be eaten by the natives. Similarly,
rolling back the laws and legal rulings of the last 150 years is not
happening either. Reform is not revolution. The way to prevent a violent
end is to push through changes that *could* be accepted, maybe
grudgingly, by the elites.

The first reform would have to be an amendment to the Constitution
enshrining free association and private discrimination as a sacred
right. The core idea of America was always the idea that it was a big
country and people could self-segregate. If it were not working for you
in the town in which you were born, you could head off to another town
to find a better situation. You cannot have a mobile, self-segregating
population when they need permission from the state to associate or
disassociate with one another.

The trouble with mobility in a democracy is that people can move to a
new place and then organize to vote for things against the wishes of the
locals. New Hampshire, for example, has been ruined by people from
Massachusetts moving there to escape taxes, but then voting for drunken
Hibernians as soon as they get a ballot. An amendment to tie voting to
your place of birth not only solves this problem, but it also makes
immigration useless as a political weapon. You cannot import new voters.
This amendment would be retroactive.

A third amendment would alter who votes in Federal elections. Universal
suffrage is every bit as a crazy as open borders. It lowers the
intelligence of the electorate and encourages the worst habits of the
political class. An amendment fixing the voting age at 35 and assigning
one vote per family household solves this problem. That is right. Only
the married can vote. Maybe some allowance for homeowners could be
considered, but the family is the future, and voting is about the
future, so you must be future oriented to vote.

Those are big reforms that would face a lot of resistance from the
billionaire predators that prosper from the current corruption. That
would necessitate a pruning of the billionaire class. Bluntly, no one is
going to care if Tim Cook is stripped of his wealth and thrown in a
dungeon. The world will not change if Jeff Bezos drops dead tomorrow.
The cemeteries are full of indispensable rich people. Therefore, the
advice
of [Thrasybulus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrasybulus_of_Miletus)
is warranted, which means an orderly trimming of the financial elite
will be required.

Some lesser reforms to the political system would also be required.
Restoring the Senate as the house of the states, by repealing the 17th
Amendment is one reform. Another would be the elimination of tax breaks
for charitable giving. Charities have become money laundering operations
for political activity. That would also get rid of the vast sea of
not-for-profit think tanks that saturate Washington. Some would survive,
but only those that do legitimate work on public policy. This would
restore some transparency too.

The whole point of democracy is for the elected officials to work a
hedge against the rich and powerful exerting control of society.
Addressing the money problem in politics is another small reform. In
Federal elections, all money must go to candidates and be reported to
the public, Further, no candidate could accept money from outside his
state or district. The use of front men to evade this rule would come
with a draconian punishment, like the stripping of all assets and
permanent banishment from the continent.

There are plenty of other small reforms that would go a long way toward
restoring stability and trust in public institutions. Presumably, if the
big items are passed, the new political class that would emerge could
address those smaller items. That is, of course, why these sorts of
reforms could never pass. Political reform in a democracy is about
altering the political class. The only alteration they could tolerate is
that which entrenches their position as front men for the cosmopolitan
global elite.

I will just note that Solon was able to get his reforms implemented and
once they were in place he gave up power and left the country. The
Athenians swore to abide by them for ten years. Within four years, the
old social rifts re-appeared, along with new ones created by Solon’s
reforms.  It quickly became clear that the reforms could only last if
Solon were around to lend his moral authority to them, as well as work
out the new problems he created. The Greeks were right back where they
started.

Eventually, someone
named [Peisistratos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peisistratos), a
relative of Solon, rose up to become the tyrant and impose order on the
Greeks. Solon accused the Athenians of stupidity and cowardice for
allowing this to happen. He was right about the first part, but
completely wrong about the second. The Greeks were being practical in
the face of an impossible problem. In time, democracy returned, drawing
from the reforms of Solon and the lessons from the period of reform and
tyranny, suggesting democracy is a result, not a process.
