---
title: "American Cicero"
date: "2018-12-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15850"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15850"
---

In an apocryphal exchange between F. Scott Fitzgerald and Ernest
Hemingway, Fitzgerald said, “The rich are different from you and me.”
Hemingway replied, “Yes, they have more money.” This gets repeated a
lot, because it tickles the egalitarian sensibilities of most Americans.
A big part of what has kept America together since the Civil War is the
myth that ours is a classless society. Some people have more money and
power than others, but that is entirely due to merit, not class and
connections.

Like the exchange itself, this belief is false. Every society has an
elite and that elite uses its influence and connections to perpetuate
itself. The daughters of rich guys marry the sons of influential guys.
Their children are groomed to take up positions in the elite, mostly due
to their family connections in the elite. Just as important, a floor is
placed under members of the elite, protecting them from reversion to the
mean. It is how the Kennedy family has been in politics for four
generations, despite their deficiencies.

What used to be unique about the American elite is they had a strong
connection to the rest of America. This is a big, continent sized
country, composed of [man
nations](https://www.washingtonpost.com/pbox.php?url=http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/govbeat/files/2013/11/upinarms-map.jpg&w=1484&op=resize&opt=1&filter=antialias&t=20170517).
That regional diversity, which is driven by biological diversity, made
for a national elite that was just a collection of local elites. This
greatly reduced the distance between the elites and those over whom they
ruled. Therefore, the American elite tended to be less elite, relative
the Europe, and much more connected to the people.

[In this interview on
C-Span](https://www.c-span.org/video/?452882-1/after-words-tucker-carlson),
Tucker Carlson explains some of the themes in his book and how he had
this epiphany about what is happening in America. It is an amazingly
frank interview about how he and his fellow elites know pretty much
nothing about the country over which they rule. At around the seven
minute mark, he makes the point that he and his neighbors do not know
things like how much gasoline costs. The reason is they have lots of
money and the price of staples is simply unimportant.

Carlson is in many respects, a throwback. He is what the WASP elite used
to be like in previous generations. That is, he grew up in privilege but
had plenty of exposure to the common people and developed some common
habits. In that same interview, he mentions that Claiborne Pell drove a
beat-up old car, despite being from old money. It was partially an
affectation, but it was also a sensibility. American elites not only did
not want to look like elites, but they also wanted to make sure they
were a *responsible* elite.

That is the interesting thing about Carlson’s book. It is being bought
and read by the hoi polloi, but it is aimed at his neighbors in
Georgetown. It is a warning to them that they better start paying
attention to what’s happening on the other side of the great cultural
wall that separates us and them. What is even more interesting is the
people who should be reading it, are not reading his book. Instead they
are [attacking Carlson for
it](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/18/business/media/tucker-carlson-advertisers-fox-news.html).
They want his [severed hands](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cicero) to
be put on display in the Capitol rotunda.

The fact is the Trump phenomenon is showing that the time for reform has
passed and whatever comes next is unavoidable. That is a truth about all
reform efforts. Once a reform effort gets going, it is almost always too
late for reform to work. The entrenched interests are too strong to
overcome. Democracy moves quickly from a point where corruption is too
minor to be of any concern to a place where corruption is too rampant
for the system to confront it. Systemic failure is the core code of
democracy.

You see this in late empire America. The ruling elite is composed of
many parts, none of which has a reason to care about public welfare. The
so-called deep-state is thoroughly beholden to global interests, [many
of whom are
foreign](https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=imgres&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwihzqme86vfAhXBTN8KHbDTAlIQjRx6BAgBEAU&url=http%3A%2F%2Ft1.gstatic.com%2Fimages%3Fq%3Dtbn%3AANd9GcT17VEsX9bVFgj4eYKewZBZ0pKb1dBhMeJuTOcXVxSkrHe0Fwd0&psig=AOvVaw1CVzIFrpKTuB6PyQ397rQM&ust=1545309127409361).
The semi-permanent administrative state is composed of [people who hold
the rest of us in
contempt](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/new-doj-report-asks-in-anti-trump-text-probe-what-happened-to-strzok-page-iphones)
and people happy to not be subjected to the vagaries of the dreaded
private sector. The mass media is a collection of propagandists and
court jesters, mostly [stupid rich
kids](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/tucker-carlson-modern-journalists-are-dumb-rich-kids).

The political class is always the focus of reform, which is why many
Americans are flirting with the sort of radicalism circulating in
dissident politics. These well-trained actors run for office on
well-designed appeals to bourgeois sensibilities, then immediately begin
speaking in tongues when they get to Washington. To follow modern
politics, as a normal person, is to see the movie [*They
Live*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iJC4R1uXDaE) over and over,
thinking there can be a different ending, that the aliens will come
around to our side.

The reason for this is the political class is just a collection of hired
men. The plutocrats, who control both parties and the administrative
state, have found that it is a lot easier to hire actors to stand in for
them in office. That means every election, the choice is between two
actors hired by the same people, playing different carefully scripted
roles. When they get to Washington, they are given a different script.
It is why so many of them are quite dumb. Stupid people do not ask too
many tough questions.

The defining feature of our modern elites is that a big part of who they
are, their sense of identity, comes from not being us. The cultivated
contempt from FBI functionaries like Peter Strzok and Lisa Page is part
of the dress code of these people. In the same way a rich guy will sport
an understated, but expensive watch or article of clothing, the people
who rule over us wear a contempt for Americans, especially white
Americans. The dying white middle-class is especially despised by the
administrative state.

This is why reform is impossible. We see this with Trump, and we would
have seen it if Bernie Sanders had scored the upset. It is not about the
old ideological framework. It is about the new cultural framework. The
people who rule over us see themselves as different from us, at war with
us. They are defined by that sense. While it is amusing to see Carlson
play the jocular Cicero role, it is important to remember the fate of
Cicero as Rome succumbed to authoritarianism. No one should buy him
gloves for Christmas.
