---
title: "The High Cost Of Size"
date: "2018-08-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-08-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14807"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14807"
---

All of the great political philosophies since the Enlightenment have
focused on the problem of scarcity. The communists insisted that the
abolition of private property would solve the problem of scarcity, so
that the only problem would be figuring out how to divvy up the bounty.
Libertarians insist that the sanctity of private property solves the
problem of scarcity, by making sure the lazy, unfit, and inconvenient
starve to death, so the survivors can eat them during lean times. Every
ideology has a solution to material scarcity.

What no ideology addresses is the shortage of smart people. Now, there
is never an abundance of smart people. Nowhere will you find a business
or an organization complaining that they have too many smart people. In
fact, companies spend a lot of time and money trying to attract and
cultivate smart people. This is the driving force behind a lot of
technological automation. It is not so much that it replaces basic labor
or reduces costs, as it frees up the smart fraction to focus on the
complex problems of the organization.

Now, there are many issues that arise from the natural shortage of smart
people. One is that smart people are most valuable when their ideas can
be [implemented by people who may not be as
smart](https://www.unz.com/jthompson/is-smart-fraction-as-valuable-as/),
but have the aptitude to implement the ideas. A good architect needs
engineers and engineers need managers, planners, and skilled tradesman.
Otherwise, the architect is just a guy who draws stuff. The point is, an
organization will not only want to attract the smart fraction, but they
will also want to attract the not-quite-so-smart fraction.

Another issue is that the inevitable shortage of smart people will lead
to putting not-so-smart people into positions for which they are not
qualified. The Peter principle is a well-known concept in management.
People in a hierarchy tend to rise to their level of incompetence. The
guy who is good as the third in charge gets bumped up to being second in
charge, where he is merely competent. Time and circumstances force his
promotion into the top spot, where he is over-matched and is viewed as
[incompetent](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/8d/President_Barack_Obama.jpg).

Then there is the problem of people being judged within an organization
based on their social skills, rather than their intelligence and
competence. The truly stupid are easy to spot, but the mediocre and
below average are often hard to notice, because they are extroverts, or
they are glib. It seems to be human nature to overestimate the abilities
of those with high verbal skills. It is why lawyers always assume they
are the smartest people in the room. They have high verbal skills and
mistake that for intelligence.

Put it all together and an organization will start out with the normal
shortage of smart people. As the organization grows, that shortage will
become acute, forcing the firm to rely on a greater number of
not-so-smart and mediocrities in positions that should be filled with
smart people. The resulting increase in errors will place a further
drain on the stock of smart people, as they have to compensate for the
downstream problems. Exacerbating this is the increasing tendency to
evaluate people on social skills rather than talent.

The result of as an organization gets bigger, it gets dumber. That seems
to be the case with American intelligence organizations. Recently,
[screw-ups
downstream](https://foreignpolicy.com/2018/08/15/botched-cia-communications-system-helped-blow-cover-chinese-agents-intelligence/)
from the upper echelon of the CIA, resulted in a very serious breach of
security. This led to the exposure of at least thirty spies, all of whom
were executed by the Chinese government. This is a serious failure under
any conditions, but the cause here suggests the CIA is no longer capable
of doing the basics. It is a big bureaucracy full of people way over
their heads.

This is not an isolated incident. Diane Feinstein had a Chinese spy on
her staff for over twenty years. Counterintelligence is a basic function
of the CIA. Their job is look for anomalies in what foreign governments
know, because that means the foreign government is getting access from
obscure sources. If the guy at the poker table always folds when you
have a good hand, it means he knows things he could not know through the
normal play of the game. There is no excuse for missing the Feinstein
spy.

Of course, there is the matter of John Brennan. He spent 25 years in the
CIA as a dangerously incompetence hack. He is known today for being the
mentally unbalanced lunatic howling about Trump on cable chat show, but
while he was CIA director, he had his e-mail account hacked and exposed
by WikiLeaks. By “hacked” it is understood to mean he was recklessly
insecure in the handling of his password and account access. The guy
never should have been in a junior position, much less a senior one at
the CIA.

There are over 20,000 employees at the CIA. Most will never do anything
more than process paperwork. Even so, the sheer size of the organization
makes it unwieldy for the task assigned to it. Intelligence work is
hard. It takes an inventive mind, but also a disciplined mind. The
supply of highly disciplined high IQ people willing to spend their lives
playing cat and mouse for modest pay is small. Placing a small number of
them in a vast stew of incompetents, mediocrities and bureaucrats does
not make the stew better.

Fixing agencies like the CIA is simply a matter of making them smaller.
Firing everyone with an even number at the end of the agency ID would be
a good start. Sure, a few good people would be lost, but the high cost
of the mediocre people would more than make up for it. One reckless bozo
can cancel out the work of a hundred competent people. The remaining ten
thousand people could be broken into five units of two thousand and you
would have a better agency overnight. In time, it may even be
trustworthy again.

Of course, this is why large organizations can never reform themselves
and why fixing American government is impossible. That army of morons at
Langley is a constituency within the vast sea of morons known as the
federal government. No one reduces their constituency on purpose.
Additionally, by the time this is an issue, incompetent boobs like John
Brennan are in senior positions. The obsequious climbers have either
pushed out the talent or simply swamped them. Government becomes a giant
punching itself in the face.
