---
title: "Judging Trump"
date: "2018-05-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-05-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=13940"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13940"
---

I am often asked if I have second thoughts about
<a href="http://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=13049" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this post</a>. I was a tiny bit more critical than
normal, but in my defense, I have no sense of humor on the gun issue.
There are certain issues that draw a bright line between the chosen and
the damned. Guns are one of them. There’s no “sort of getting it right”
or “only being a bit wrong.” You either get it or not and Trump does not
get it, but he has shut up about it. He went to the NRA convention, so
I’ll give him a pass.

I’m still waiting for Trump to deliver on the stuff that is important to
me. Despite the bold talk on immigration, he has done nothing. His best
work has been on trade, where he has gotten tough on China and re-opened
the NAFTA deal. He’s also dismantled the climate change apparatus inside
the Department of Energy and cut a ton of punitive regulations. These
are all good things and in another age, I’d probably be over the moon.
But, it is not another age. It is now.

Despite making lots of noise on the issue, nothing much has changed on
the immigration front. The wall is no closer to reality than it was two
years ago. The number of guest worker visas has increased, rather than
decreased. The DACA issue is still out there, as Trump now waits on the
states to solve the problem for him. He installed a dunce in as
secretary of DHS. Worse yet, that perfidious weasel Paul Ryan is quietly
trying to sneak an amnesty through the House.

In fairness, the immigration issue is not an easy puzzle to solve. No
reasonable person should have expected sweeping reform in the first two
years. The fact is, a third of the GOP is bought and paid for by the
open borders lobbies. Another third are so utterly clueless on the
issue, they don’t know where to start. Still, Trump has been outfoxed
and outworked by his opponents on immigration. He seems to like talking
about immigration more than doing anything about it.

All that said, he has a lot of time to make things right and he has
shown an extremely rare ability to address his own errors. The gun issue
is a good example. He was making all of the usual mistakes on guns, then
he wised up and reversed course. Most pols are the opposite of a fine
wine. They get worse with age. Because he is not an ideologue, Trump
learns from his mistakes and adjusts. Maybe on the immigration front we
see the same sort of growth we saw on guns.

The bigger issue though, the thing now looming over his entire
presidency, is the wide ranging conspiracy engineered by the
intelligence community. A few months ago it looked like a handful of
radicalized mid-level bureaucrats. What’s becoming clear is this was a
conspiracy hatched by the men at the top of the intelligence community,
with help from the White House, to not only help Hillary Clinton, but
engineer a coup after the election to get rid of Trump.

Think about the stones it takes to face off against the intel community.
They literally know all of your secrets. In the case of Trump, they have
the secrets of his friends, family and business associates. It was 18
months ago that Chuck Schumer warned Trump about doing this. When
Schumer said, “Intel officials ‘have six ways from Sunday at getting
back at you'” he was not being flippant or rhetorical. We now know the
intel community has been at this for a while.

It’s not just the fact that the intel community has the capacity to spy
on everyone and appears to be spying on everyone. It’s that these are
vicious, craven people lacking a moral compass. It’s ironic that James
Comey was fond of accusing his people of lacking a moral compass, when
it is now clear the guy is a sociopath incapable of knowing right from
wrong. Clapper and Brennan have no scruples whatsoever. Of course,
assassination looms over all of this.

Now, we can’t know how much Trump knows, or how much he knew back in the
campaign about the spying. It is entirely possible that honest people
had told him what was happening long ago. We do know Mike Rogers went to
Trump Tower after the election and warned Trump about this operation.
Once in office, Trump would have been briefed on a lot of things related
to this. Even if he thought it was just a handful of crackpots in the
FBI, it took mighty big stones to take the issue head on.

One of the funny things about these times is they are entirely
unexpected. Back when Trump came down the escalator and started talking
like Pat Buchanan, I recall thinking, “I can’t imagine a scenario where
I vote for him, but I never imagined anyone saying these things again
either.” Trump is turning out to be the most consequential president in
our lifetime. I think we have to withhold judgement on him until these
great events of this age unfold.
