---
title: "The Wizards"
date: "2018-10-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-10-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Greatest Hits
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15249"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15249"
---

In the 1980’s, one of the great puzzles for conservatives was how
left-wing economists could not bring themselves to acknowledge the
obvious. The Soviet economic model was a failure in absolute terms, as
well as relative terms. Even long after the Soviets collapsed, guys like
Paul Krugman remained puzzled by the inability of the communist system
to keep pace with the West. [His
answer](http://economistsview.typepad.com/economistsview/2008/02/paul-krugman-wh.html)
was that the Soviets either lost their will or lacked the moral fiber to
make revolutionary socialism work.

As Greg Cochran has pointed out, the failings of socialism were obvious
to anyone willing to look at what was happening. Once the Soviet Empire
fell, it was undeniable, but economics never paid a price for being so
wrong. In fact, the status of the field went up after the Cold War.
Nobel Prize–winning economist Joseph Stiglitz became a shaman to the
ruling class, [despite a miserable track
record](https://www.city-journal.org/joseph-stiglitz-venezuela-16181.html).
He is another guy who thinks the morality of socialism should make it
work.

Now, part of this is something that John Derbyshire pointed out in [his
infamous review](http://www.unz.com/jderbyshire/classic/2003/03/) of
Kevin McDonald’s book, *The Culture of Critique*. “Jews are awfully good
at creating pseudoscience—elaborate, plausible, and intellectually very
challenging systems that do not, in fact, have any truth content.” In
fairness to John, he was summarizing what McDonald had written, but he
largely agreed with the assertion. There is a fair bit of this in
economics, where smart Jews conjure alternative reality.

That is a fun point to make, but that is not the reason for economists
to be wildly wrong about so much, yet immune from criticism. By now,
someone in the field should have pointed out that Joseph Stiglitz is a
crank. Someone like Christine Romer, who was Obama’s top economist, was
[completely
wrong](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/08/06/AR2010080606271.html?noredirect=on)
about the effects of his stimulus plan, yet she was rewarded with a plum
job in the academy. In most every field, even astrology, being that
wrong is disqualifying.

Now, it is fun to mock economics, but it really should be a useful field
and play a positive role in public policy debates. There are useful
observations that come from the field, with regards to how people
respond to various economic policies. In theory, the economics shop
should provide objective analysis of government performance, policy
proposals and basic data about the state of the economy. Government is
about trade-offs and economics should provide the details of those
trade-offs.

Of course, there are reasons for the field being a mess. One reason is
that economics is not science. It is a basic set of immutable truths
swimming in a sea of pointless analysis, clever models that mean
nothing, and wishful thinking. Then there is the fact that there is
money to be made in putting your stamp on the polices. When Christine
Romer was selected by Obama, it was the golden ticket to elite of the
[New Keynesian
Economics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Keynesian_economics) cult.
She and her husband are now senior clerics.

There is something else that can be teased out of this phenomenon and
that is the corrosive effect of democracy on objectivity. Democratic
forms of government lack legitimacy, because they start with the
assumption that anyone can hold any office within the system. No one is
going to respect the office of legislator if the job can be won and held
by anyone. Even in a republican form of government the assumption is
that anyone can enter the process.

Unlike other forms of government that can rely on the blessing of the
religious authority, democracy inevitably obliterates any threat to
itself. Christians like to believe that the decline in faith corresponds
with the rise in public corruption, but it is the reverse. The spread of
democracy is what drives the decline in faith. Everywhere democracy
becomes ascendant, religion moves into decline. This is an observation
Muslims have made, which is why they oppose democracy.

That need for moral authority is still there, so inevitably democratic
system evolves a civic religion and before long a civic clerisy. This
intellectual elite, supported by the political elite that control the
democratic institutions give their blessing to the whims of the office
holders. The role of economist is that of the court astrologer in Persia
or Merlin in the court of King Arthur. They appear to be consulting
hidden knowledge, but they always end up endorsing whatever their patron
desires.

The other side of this coin is there is no reason for the political
class to attack their court magicians, even when they are completely
wrong, because they will need them to bless the next set of policies.
Romer is the worst case. Her and her husband have lifetime positions at
an elite university. Stiglitz gets treated like the senior shaman by all
sides of the political elite, because someone must fill that role. It is
a lot like how the Catholic Church handles pedophile priests, when you
think about it.
