---
title: "2019 Predictions"
date: "2018-12-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-12-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=15981"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15981"
---

Most of the predictions for the coming year have something about Trump
and his agenda, as he faces a divided Congress. What will be revealed is
the Congress is not so divided after all, as both parties will boldly
lock shields to thwart the Trump agenda. The House will spend the year
issuing subpoenas and holding hearings so their more clownish elements
can perform for the cameras. The Senate will go on strike, doing nothing
other than quietly pushing through Trump’s appointments to the Federal
bench.

The Mueller probe will take a different turn in 2019. Now that it has
been established as a semi-permanent oversight office, charged with
keeping Trump from doing anything, the cover-up of the FBI subversion
will be completed. All Congressional inquiries will end, and the IG
reports will contain nothing. Team Mueller will then turn to watching
everyone working in the White House to make sure nothing can be done
without the approval of official Washington. Team Mueller will be the
shadow cabinet going forward.

The race to see who succeeds Trump in 2020 will be where the action is
as the Democrats start to get serious about building their field.
Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders, and Kamala Harris will be working the
donor circuit, using exploratory committees to help build their brands
in early states. The Iowa Caucus and New Hampshire primary are just 13
months away. Elizabeth Warren will turn out to be Howard Dean in a
dress, as her campaign will make a lot of noise in the media but not
appeal to actual voters.

Because the Democrats will be shifting their focus to winning the White
House in 2020, the censorship trend will take a different turn, as the
tech giants begin to censor the Left. Look for the social media
companies to begin cracking down on the BernieBro wing, to boost the
standing of party approved candidates. Suddenly, groups like Antifa are
going to find themselves without the protection they have enjoyed. They
were always corporate tools, they just never knew it. In 2019, they find
out who signs their checks.

The volatile bear market will continue as the financial world adjusts to
some big new realities. One is the white retirement will quicken,
slowing the flow of cash into retirement funds. Second, the Fed will
continue to unwind its positions, thus raising the value of cash, while
managing a mild deflation in asset values. Home prices will start to
fall in certain markets and categories. The great demographic turnover
has begun, and the financial world will begin learning why no one cares
about the Mexican stock market.

The world will start to notice that the Chinese economy cannot
transition to one reliant on domestic demand fast enough to avoid a
correction. China built its economy on currency manipulation and
exploiting loopholes in global trade arrangements. Those loopholes are
now closing. The Fed and ECB are much less tolerant of currency
manipulation. The transition to a more normal economic model will
require breaking more than a few iron rice bowls. That means China will
get more authoritarian in the near term.

Theresa May will not get her fake Brexit bill through the Commons.
Instead, there will be a second referendum later in the year so the
Brits can vote correctly this time. The original deadline will be
suspended pending the outcome of the new referendum, which will be
rigged to make sure the remain side wins. Theresa May’s government will
fall, and new elections will be held. All concerned will accept a Tory
defeat as the price that must be paid to defend British democracy.

On the Continent, populist unrest will give momentum to the [Three Seas
Initiative](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_Seas_Initiative) as part
of a corrective to the European project. This year will see two camps
emerge with one favoring the decentralized model championed by Poland
and another camp favoring a centralized model with Germany in charge.
The irony of the decentralized model being favored by all the former
communist nations will not be lost on anyone. The great test for both
camps is their approach to immigration, which is becoming untenable.

Cord cutting will begin to have a real impact on the sports
entertainment business. The rapid growth of American sports was driven
by television money. That television money came from the cable
monopolies that were given the right to tax households for content they
would not otherwise purchase. Cord cutting and the demographic changes
mean fewer households willing to pay the Hollywood jizya. This is the
year when college and professional sports leagues begin to feel the
pinch.

Finally, this is the year when serious questions about the authenticity
of the Facebook business model go mainstream. For years, everyone has
accepted their word, as far the number of users looking at ads on the
site. Every six months they must apologize for another “bug” in the
metrics that overstated their claims. No one really knows how many
humans use the site and advertisers have no way to know if humans really
view their ads. This year people are beginning to wonder if Facebook is
on the level.
