---
title: "The Sacred Immigrant"
date: "2018-06-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2018-06-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Immigration
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14105"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14105"
---

For a long time, I have made the point that the Republican Party is not
really a political party, in the sense that it is a coalition held
together by common interests. Instead, it is more like a dumping ground
for politicians. About a third of Republican office holders would prefer
to be huddling with the Democrats, but the voters of their home district
or state have decided the Democrats are too crazy, so ambitious
politicians run as Republicans. The result is a party held together by
convenience.

You see that with the immigration disaster brewing in the House. As it
stands the GOP could simply do nothing on immigration and ride the wave
of popular support into the election. That would be the smart thing.
Instead, they are trying to pass an immigration bill that has no chance
of making it through the Senate. Now, this could be good politics if it
is popular with their voters. Instead, [they are about to pass a bill
highly
unpopular](http://www.breitbart.com/big-government/2018/06/13/gop-immigration-deal-potentially-biggest-amnesty-in-u-s-history/)
with their voters and sure to remind Trump supporters why they hate the
GOP.

*A leaked draft of House Speaker Paul Ryan’s (R-WI) amnesty deal could
lead to the “biggest” amnesty for illegal aliens in United States
history, experts tell Breitbart News.*  
*Ryan’s immigration deal would go beyond giving amnesty to only the
nearly 800,000 illegal aliens who are enrolled in the President
Obama-created Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.*

*According to a leaked draft of the amnesty deal, obtained by Breitbart
News, Ryan’s plan would allow the entire “DACA population” to be
eligible for amnesty so long as they meet low educational, work and
criminal requirements, prompting the amnesty to explode in size.*

*That DACA population could include the nearly 3.5 million DACA-enrolled
and DACA-eligible illegal aliens, and even more illegal aliens who
arrive in the U.S. to fraudulently obtain the amnesty.*

*NumbersUSA Governmental Affairs Director Rosemary Jenks told Breitbart
News that Ryan’s amnesty will — at the least — allow 1.8 million illegal
aliens to stay in the U.S.*

*“This has the potential to turn into the biggest amnesty we’ve ever
had,” Jenks said.*

*The leaked amnesty deal reveals that Ryan and the Republican
establishment may even be considering going beyond giving amnesty to
DACA illegal aliens.*

*A second amnesty is included in the leaked draft, one that would allow
the children of temporary foreign guest workers and “anyone who has a
‘contingent nonimmigrant status’” to apply for the amnesty.*

*This amnesty for the children of temporary foreign workers does not
have a numerical cap, allowing for an endless amount of foreign
nationals to obtain amnesty through this avenue known as “Pathway
Concept B.”*

*“The winners are the DREAMers cause they get their amnesty, Democrats
because they don’t have to concede much to get the amnesty and
donor-class Republicans who are interested in perpetuating the current
system,” Center for Immigration Studies Director of Policy Jessica
Vaughan told Breitbart News of Ryan’s leaked amnesty deal.*

It is tempting to blame this on the secret “donor party” that allegedly
manipulates the inner party, like some sort of Turkish conspiracy. There
is no doubt that business pushes hard for unlimited “guest worker”
visas. No matter how many indentured servants they are granted, it is
never enough. Who is pushing for amnesty? In whose interests is it to
hand a ballot to millions of foreigners? That actually hurts the cheap
labor lobby, as it removes exploitable people from the labor pool.

This is an example of why so-called conservatives lost every fight over
the last thirty years. They start with the assumption that the other
team is working from facts and reason, motivated by a desire for some
tangible goal. In this case, immigration patriots will demand everyone
believe Paul Ryan is getting sacks of cash to push this ridiculous
amnesty bill through the House. Sure, some of the provisions are bought
by lobbyists, but the amnesty stuff has no obvious constituency in the
Republican Party.

The fact is, people are more often motivated by a desire to be seen as
on the side of angels, even if it brings personal risk. Just look at the
number of pols who have driven a hole into their career opposing Trump.
As they go under for the last time, they are smugly certain they are
doing the Lord’s work. For many in our political class, open borders is
a moral issue now. They want to grant the blessing of your town to the
world, because they feel righteous as they watch it play out.

This suicidal altruism is not just confined to the political class. Any
time the immigration question comes up, there are people who will blurt
out “I’m not opposed to *legal* immigration. It is *illegal* immigration
I oppose.” That is why the political class is working to legalize every
conceivable form of immigration. If there are literally no laws against
coming here, then there can be no illegal immigration, and everyone is
happy. It is the natural result of sacralizing the immigrant.

It is why arguments from facts and reason about immigration have had no
impact on the political class. Even as the public begins to get serious
about the issue, the politicians are unresponsive, because they
correctly see that the immigrant remains a magical figure in the mind of
the public. Until a large majority of the voters become hostile to
immigration in the spiritual sense, nothing changes. Yeah, the cheap
labor lobbies play into this and exploit it, but the root problem here
is immigrant worship.
