---
title: "Right-Wing Cosmopolitanism"
date: "2019-12-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19302"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19302"
---

The British election offers a good opportunity to see the detachment of
official conservatism from the people they pretend to represent. Most of
the conservative chattering class was quietly hopeful of a Labour Party
victory. They would be justified in opposing what they sneeringly refer
to as populism. Boris Johnson is a boorish loudmouth, who has an uncanny
appeal with working class people, despite being a man of privilege. He’s
the sort of guy conservatives think should not exist.

What baffles conservatives about Boris and Trump is that neither man
goes in for the dorm room libertarianism that has come to define
conservatism. They proudly talk about spending money on things like
infrastructure projects and government services. They think the
government should make the lives of the citizens better. The economy, as
far as they are concerned, is about serving the people, a concept so
alien to modern conservatives they confuse it with socialism.

Of course, what baffles conservatives most about these types of
politicians is they don’t seem to care very much for the cosmopolitan
types, who decorate the salons of modern conservatism. Johnson won on
the strength of his appeal the sort of native Britain, who no longer
goes to London, because London is full of foreigners now. Similarly,
Trump won on his appeal to whites in flyover country, who worry that
their country is being turned into Brazil. Conservatives are baffled by
this.

So much so, they just assume it is an illusion. [Andrew
Stuttaford](https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/uk-elections-boris-johnson-conservative-party-win-big/),
writing in National Review recognizes the facts of Johnson’s victory,
but then says, “If the Conservatives are to repeat last night’s success
in the next general election (currently scheduled for 2024) they will
want to claw back some of those London voters.” In other words, despite
the results, he remains convinced that the path to victory is chasing
the non-white cosmopolitan vote in the cosmopolitan areas.

This is the same psychosis we have seen in America with conservatives.
They demand the GOP bankrupt itself chasing a few black votes, at the
expense of the vast number of white votes it can easily gain. It is a
form of Stockholm syndrome. Conservatives have been captured by the Left
for so long, they have now completely internalized the morality of the
Left, to the point where it is natural for them. They just assume one
sacred black vote is worth more than every single white vote.

Of course, people in cults cannot process disconfirmation, so they look
for ways to explain the contrary results within the context of their
beliefs. Quickly after the results were known, the so-called
conservatives blamed the results on the antisemitism of Jeremy Corbyn.
Also in National Review, [Michael Brendan
Dougherty](https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/12/judgment-day-u-k-tories-win-big/)
claims “Under Corbyn’s watch, Labour became a party in which
anti-Semitism started to have free rein.” Yeah, that’s what caused
millions to vote Tory.

Not to be outdone, the neocons are blaming magic miasmas that brought
with them a foul odor of socialism. The Trotskyites at Bill Kristol’s
new Persia-based outlet are blaming it on their old enemies in the
party. [Charlie
Sykes](https://thebulwark.com/all-shall-gaze-upon-the-future-and-despair/)
writes, “And make no mistake about it, Corbyn’s Labour party platform
was a progressive, democratic-socialist fever dream.” You see, according
to these guys, Brexit and nationalism are wildly unpopular, but the
scary socialisms is even more unpopular.

Another point here is that the so-called conservatives were completely
taken in by the last-minute campaign by the mass media to claim the
election was tight. One reason is they really wanted to believe it.
Another reason, a more important one, is that they always trust the
Left. They instinctively trust the left-wing media, despite having been
lied to so often. It’s not an institutional trust or a desire for it,
but a natural comfort for the sorts of people who control the left-wing
media.

That is because conservatism in the English-speaking countries has
become nothing more than right-wing cosmopolitanism. These are people
who live in cities as strangers to everyone around them. Community is
not based on history or tradition, but in a shared ideology. Ben Shapiro
made this clear when he said “And by the way, I don’t give a good damn
about the so-called “browning of America.” Color doesn’t matter.
Ideology does.” This is the essence of cosmopolitanism.

It’s also not conservative. The reason conservatism exists is people
naturally attach to their kin, their land and their traditions. This is
the bulwark against radicalism, which seeks to replace normal human
relations with ideological ones. Most people, as the saying goes, are
conservative about what they know best. That means in the English
-speaking world, most people are naturally conservative. It is this vast
majority of whites that is now alien to the cosmopolitan conservatives.

This is why the first project of an authentic alternative is to claw
back the mantle of conservatism from the cosmopolitans. Let them drift
back to their kind in the party, to wrangle over false consciousness and
the finer points of ideology. The authentic alternative to this is not a
slightly different ideology, but the rejection of ideology as the
foundation of politics. In order for there to be a genuine alternative
politics, the cosmopolitan conservatives must first be driven from the
temple.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
