---
title: "The Civil War"
date: "2019-04-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17034"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17034"
---

America is a land that bans books, has political prisoners and condemns
people to a form of internal exile where they cannot have a job or
maintain a normal life. Ten years ago, if someone said Americans would
lose their jobs because <a
href="https://www.gazettenet.com/Smith-College-students-protest-against-racism-new-police-chief-24764370"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">they liked something</a> on
social media, only the aluminum foil hat types would have believed it.
Such things were considered impossible just a decade ago. In the 1980’s,
these were the sorts of things that happened in the Soviet Union, which
was why communism was considered evil.

Yet, here we are, seeing things we thought impossible not so long
ago. <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mpzgbBq32Ac"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This is a clip</a> from a
television show aired on one of the legacy networks. The video is a
naked call for violence against whites. Even after all of the outrageous
behavior we have seen from the ruling class the last few years, no
reasonable person would have thought this was possible even a year ago.
Even the Soviets at the worst were not exhorting people to commit acts
of violence against enemies of the revolution.

Up until now, it was reasonable to think that the paleocons were right.
The Left was using excited language in an effort to keep their coalition
of non-white tribes focused on white men, rather than their many
grievances with one another. That sounded logical and let’s face it, it
is what most normal white people want to believe. After all, the
implication of this line of reasoning is that the Left is struggling to
keep it together. We don’t have to worry about facing them in a fight,
as they will splinter and abandon the field.

The travelling partner to this line of thought comes from the principled
conservatives, who are always ready to create a new set of conservative
principles to excuse the excesses of the Left. Without acknowledging the
paleocons, they implicitly accept the argument, but add on that the more
sober minded on the Left will see the folly of their actions and begin
to rein in their crazies, before <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2017_Congressional_baseball_shooting"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">anything serious happens</a>.
This is when they accuse the dissident right of harming civility and
appeal to the Left for bipartisanship.

It’s not hard to see why normal middle-class white people find this
appealing. They live ordered lives and just want to be left to live
those ordered lives in peace. What they don’t want to see is violence in
the streets and they certainly don’t want to be asked to confront those
violent crazies on their streets. The Danegeld gets a bad reputation,
but it is easy to understand the appeal in the moment. The current
version is the Prog-geld, where the civilized concede a little bit of
civilization, in order to avoid fighting the Prog.

This cycle where the Left commits outrages against civility and the
white middle-class accommodates it, has led to where we are now. The
people calling themselves the defenders of democracy tried to subvert
the last Presidential election. The so-called social justice warriors
celebrate a black movie star walking free after perpetrating a blood
libel against white people. The defenders of open debate on the college
campus, rush to suppress any opinion not on the increasingly narrow list
of approved opinions.

That is an important clue. Spend time on social media and you see the
people claiming to be the vanguard of the proletariat celebrating
trillion dollar corporations stomping on poor guys holding the wrong
opinions. The pampered Progressives in the ruling class imagine
themselves to be the resistance against oppression. This justifies them
using any means necessary to defeat their enemy. That video is a
justification of preemptive violence, because they believe people like
you are a threat to their well-being.

It’s why it is time think about what is impossible today, in terms of
social breakdown, as it will most likely happen tomorrow. The blood lust
of the ruling class for whites not obediently walking into the void, is
now undeniable. Their response to the 2016 election was to declare war
on white America. In their minds, it is a defensive war and they are
fully justified to use any means necessary to win. There will be no
point where they pull back, fearing they have gone too far. Instead they
will always seek to go further.

Again, America is a land where books are banned, people are given long
prison terms for holding unpopular opinions and the livelihoods of
contrarians are destroyed. This is a land where gangs of roving mobs,
financed by billionaires, commit violence against citizens without
consequence. Now we have a major television network calling for violence
against whites and celebrating violent acts against a specific person.
All of this was thought to be impossible ten years ago. What impossible
thing will tomorrow bring?
