---
title: "Post-National Patriotism"
date: "2019-07-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18010"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18010"
---

Like most Americans, I am putting down my burdens to enjoy the long
Independence Day weekend. The holiday falling on a Thursday, means most
everyone is using vacation time for Friday, so it is essentially a four
day weekend. All of my clients are on skeleton crews if they are open at
all. Technically the Federal government is open on Friday, but good luck
doing business with them, The Imperial Capital will be full of tourists
and terrorists from Antifa, so it is a no-go zone this weekend.

In theory, this is supposed to be the day where all of us take a moment
to remember how lucky we are to be Americans. There will be fireworks
shows all over the country, along with patriotic displays, parades and
so on. The sportsball teams performing this weekend will be kitted out
in special patriotic gear and the parks will have longer than usual
patriotic displays. Of course, that means lots of lectures on civic
nationalism from the usual suspects. Like everything we do, it will be
overdone and commercial.

There used to be a time when I enjoyed the flag waving. There was
something magical to be at a public event, like a ball game, seeing
everyone singing the national anthem or seeing men get a little choked
up at a remembrance for fallen heroes. Patriotism is one of those things
that makes you feel small and humble, but also part of something that is
massive and timeless. It is an appeal to the oldest of instincts,
perhaps that which makes us human. That is the willingness to sacrifice
for the tribe.

That is the key to it, sacrifice. To be patriotic is to willingly, even
if in truth it is involuntary, give over yourself to the whole, for the
benefit of the whole. The heroes, in the patriotic sense, are those who
sacrificed in times of great crisis. Of course, the ultimate heroes are
those who made the ultimate sacrifice. The most revered place in the
psyche of a people is where they bury their heroes. It’s not just where
they honor the memory of their heroes, built where they go to remember
who they are as a people.

This sacrificial element is biological of course. The biologist J. B. S.
Haldane reportedly said, “I would gladly give up my life for two
brothers or eight cousins.”  What he meant is the willingness to
sacrifice for others is driven by genetic proximity. A man is willing to
sacrifice everything for his immediate family. He is increasingly less
willing to sacrifice for his extended family. As the genetic distance
increases, his willingness to sacrifice declines to a point at which he
is unwilling to sacrifice at all.

This is something the ancient Greeks observed about men at war. When
fighting with their backs to their own lands and their own people, men
would fight heroically. When on foreign soil, out of range of their
families, they were much more cautious. Haldane, in The Inequality of
Man, notes that fanaticism is one of man’s great inventions, as it
overcomes this biological reality. Those men fighting on foreign lands,
will see their comrades as brothers, through the shared fanatical
devotion to a cause.

This, of course, is why our modern rulers are relentlessly whipping us,
or at least their dedicated followers, into a frenzy over cultural fads.
In the West, people are strangers to one another, often in their
communities. The natural bonds from biological proximity, the shared
ancestors and cultural heritage, are no longer possible when your
neighbors are men from faraway lands, speaking exotic languages. The
normal mortar that binds a people has been eroded by multiculturalism,
replaced with endless shrieking.

The Left has always been at war with man’s nature. This is the legacy of
Rousseau, perhaps history’s greatest monster. From the radicalism of the
Jacobins to the multiculturalists of today, the Left has always been
particularly hostile to man’s natural affinity for those with whom he
shares a common ancestor. Patriotism, especially in modern America, is a
reminder that the ties that bind one man to another are not the words of
an ideologue, but the mating decisions of their ancestors.

Of course, the Right has stepped into to make the job easier for the
Left, by turning patriotism into a cheesy celebration of the ruling
class. Whether it is support for pointless wars of choice or the
obsequious worship of post-national corporations, patriotism from
so-called conservatives is now ridiculous flag waving. They take care to
decorate their celebrations with all of the trappings of
multiculturalism. The lack of authenticity makes the whole thing a
grotesque mockery of the past.

For dissidents, patriotism is increasingly impossible. On the one hand,
there is the absurd version that celebrates multiculturalism and the end
of the nation state. On the hand there is the synthetic version that
papers over reality with nostalgia. Patriotism is no longer the roar of
people in their prime, but instead it is the sad songs from old men, who
keep alive memories of an age that has passed. In a post-national world,
there can be no room for nationalism. There can be no post-national
patriotism.

That does not mean it should be forgotten or ignored. For the dissident,
the patriotic displays are a good reminder of what they have taken from
us, but also a reminder of why we are dissidents. There may be no more
nation states, but that bond of biological proximity is eternal. It is a
fundamental part of our nature. The fight is not to restore the world to
where it was, but to restore the world to its natural mooring. Identity
politics is about building communities based in biology, not the
rantings of fanatics.

If you care about your community and want to support those working hard
on your behalf, consider supporting my work by donating the price of a
beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money
to destroy your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z
Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!
