---
title: "Chaotic Evil"
date: "2019-11-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18992"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18992"
---

Over the weekend, the news brought word that Greg Johnson had been
arrested in Norway on incitement charges. <a
href="https://www.counter-currents.com/2019/11/an-interview-with-greg-johnsons-lawyer/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The details</a> are still
coming out, but the basics are that a far-left group claimed he was a
terrorist and the Norwegian authorities just took their word for it and
had him detained. Presumably, they will deport him from the country and
try to have him banned from the continent. That is a popular tactic for
radical extremists to use in Europe to harass Americans they don’t like.

Of course, calling these domestic terror groups *radical* or *extreme*
is just a way to express contempt for them using common language. It’s
not an accurate description of where they stand on the political
spectrum. When Antifa or the SPLC can dictate terms to the political
class, they are neither radical or extreme. They are the mainstream,
well within the conventional of the ruling class. It is what we use to
call normal people, with their rules and procedures, who are now the
outliers.

This is a lesson that dissidents have to internalize. Many on this side
of the divide are stuck in the past, with regards to the political
landscape. They assume we live in a rule-based society, in which one can
appeal to a neutral authority for relief when the Left violates the
rules. If that world ever existed, it is long gone. We live in a soft
authoritarianism, where the rules are whatever the people in power say
they are at any point in time. It’s not rule of law. It is rule by
left-wing fanatic.

As such, the old Chinese curse should always be at the front of the mind
of the dissident. That curse is, “may the government become aware of
you.” The Chinaman, having lived under some form of authoritarian
bureaucracy for thousands of years, is conditioned to understand the
reality of his relationship to society. The Chinaman knows that the
bureaucrat can and will inflict unlimited cruelty as only a bureaucrat
can, if given the opportunity. The wise person avoids making himself
known to them.

In the case of modern dissidents in the modern West, it means avoiding
any and all contact with the crazies the managerial class deploys as
lures and traps. That’s the only utility of groups like Antifa, Hope Not
Hate and the ADL. Their role is to keep beating the bushes in order to
lure dissidents out into the open. Then they can attack, giving their
handlers in the bureaucracy the excuse to bring the hammer down on the
people involved in the skirmish. If a few left-wing street activists are
harmed, so be it.

The primary weapon of the soft authoritarian is the lie. Because they
operate inside a thicket of rules and regulations, they know a
well-placed lie can turn those rules into a spider web, tangling up the
victim for years. In the struggle to free himself, he may make addition
mistakes, allowing other spiders in the system to vomit forth their
digestive acids onto the victim. Even if the victim can free himself, he
has lost time and resources, making him weaker and more timid.

This is on full display with the seditious plot to overturn the 2016
election. The people involved are not very bright. Most are the sort
who, in a saner age, would be manning a rural Post Office branch or
maybe stamping forms down at the title office. In a soft
authoritarianism, they rise through the ranks, spinning their webs on
behalf of the system, getting rewarded for their treachery and deceit.
That plot was a revolt of sexless bureaucrats lashing out a reminder of
what they are not.

This sort of ruling system attracts a certain sort of person. The type
that enjoys tangling people up in a web of lies is a timid sociopath,
who hates himself and therefore the world that created him. These are
people who can only enjoy what they feel as pleasure by witnessing the
suffering of others. Look around the Left and you see sexless, passive
males and bitter deranged females. These are people who live to inflict
misery on others, hoping it will bring them relief from their own
miserable lives.

What this means for dissidents in the West is cleaning the mind of those
old civic nationalist notions of a lawful society judged by neutral
arbiters. That world does not exist and cannot be conjured into
existence. There is no shaming these people into acting like normal
people, capable of living in a civilized, orderly society. They are
chaotic evil. They have no respect for rules, other people’s lives, or
anything but their own desire for revenge against a world that has made
them some hideous.

It’s why moaning about the collapse of free speech in the West is just
self-flagellation, unless it is to convert people to the dissident
cause. The ethos of the modern dissident is to never allow an outrage to
go to waste. Use <a
href="https://vdare.com/posts/freedom-of-speech-dead-in-europe-greg-johnson-detained-deported-because-he-might-say-something"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">every incident</a> to
force the civic nationalist to confront the reality of his situation.
For now, the best that can be done is to spread a quiet cynicism about
the system. A society of cynical people is much more expensive to rule
than a population still under the ether of civic nationalism.

More important though, it means operating in the shadows. The days or
organizing in public, holding well-advertised gatherings and
participating in constructive public debate are gone. That reality will
surely make many angry and indignant, but for a dissident to have any
hope, he must always accept the reality of his situation. Otherwise, he
will always be drawn into that web of lies and deceits that are spun to
ensnare the people into the soft authoritarianism of the neo-liberal
order.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
