---
title: "Self-Loathing As Medicine"
date: "2019-07-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18113"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18113"
---

At the national conservatism conference, a recurring theme of the
speeches was the awfulness of identity politics. The speakers would not
get into the details, beyond noting it made unifying the country
impossible. There were no references to black identity or the variety of
group identities coming from the grievance studies departments. They
would just refer to it in the same way that people refer to drug taking
of drunk driving. That is, these are obviously immoral things that good
people know to avoid.

The thing is though, this sort of talk only occurs in front of white
people. Despite all the invective aimed at people on the dissident
right, about their alleged racism, there was not a lot of diversity at
the conference. A back of the envelope count says it was 65% white, 30%
Jewish and 5% other. It may have been more Jewish than that, but not
every Jew wears a yarmulke. Regardless, there may have been one black
person and a few dozen people of mysterious origins. No a lot of
vibrancy.

In other words, despite the hooting about white racism, the room was
full of white people, who spend most of their time around white people
or fellow whites. The typical black person experiences vastly more
diversity in his daily life. Even the emotionally crippled women of the
gender studies department get more diversity. The point being, <a
href="https://vdare.com/articles/vdare-com-10-01-10-jared-taylor-remembers-joe-sobran"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Joe Sobran’s line</a> about
liberals applies to the various types of conservatives and now these
newfangled national conservatives.

Putting that aside though, the typical white person in America really
and truly does think identity politics is a bad thing. They look at the
alternatives to the bourgeois civic nationalism of their lives and see
that it is a shabby alternative. In fact, non-white identity politics
can only exist where white people are in sufficient numbers to keep the
water flowing and the lights working. That’s because identity politics
is actually just anti-white politics. It is an entirely negative
identity.

No public white person would dare say such a thing, but that’s the truth
of it and more and more white people are waking up to it. The
<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/kevin-drums-march-to-the-sea/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">old paleocons</a> can
pearl-clutch this stuff all they like, but there is no turning back from
it. Lecturing white America on the dangers of identity politics is now
getting people killed. The only responsible thing to say in front of a
white audience on the subject is the truth. What animates the new faces
of the Democrat party, for example, is a hatred of white people.

Of course, one reason why the people railing against identity politics
do so exclusively in front of white audiences is they fear this truth
settling in on whites. That’s why tirades against white nationalism
often coincide with the tirades against identity politics. They are two
sides of the same coin, which is a fear that whites will begin to see
their collective interests as primary. If in the next election whites
vote their skin, Trump wins a fifty state landslide and 70% of the
popular vote.

At the risk of over-making the point, these lectures to whites about
identity politics are more insidious than they seem at first blush. The
temptation is to assume it is just bourgeois white people extolling
civic nationalism, by criticizing anything that undermines civic unity.
Alternatively, it is a way for these people to puff out their chests and
declare that it is the Democrats who are the real racists. Even today,
this is a wildly popular tick among the civic nationalist types.

There’s something more important about these lectures. They are built on
the assumption that the worst of all identity politics is white identity
politics. Blacks embracing their racial awareness is not only ignored,
but often celebrated by the same people fretting over white identity.
Jewish identity, of course, is the greatest of all possible things. A
multi-million dollar celebration of it was just staged in the capital,
along with hundreds of media people, marched in to report on it.

White identity, well, that’s the worst and that’s why these lectures
against identity politics never happen in front of non-whites. David
French does not spend his days going to colleges demanding they junk
their black studies departments. The boys at various Koch Brothers
rackets are not going to the grievance studies departments, holding
seminars on the dangers of identity politics. Instead, rants against
identity politics are only aimed at white audiences, because white
identity is what they fear.

When you witness this stuff up close, it is hard not to get angry about
it and develop a deep loathing for the people behind it. When a Tucker
Carlson does a bit on the evils of identity politics, one has to wonder
if he is really an asset. To perpetuate white self-loathing in an age of
racial politics and minority-majority demographics is to invite terror
upon white people. To anathematize whites in order to prevent white
identity is to counsel the victim to just like back and take it.

In fairness, a lot of the hooting about identity politics from civic
nationalists is just alienation dressed up as nostalgia. They feel the
same loss the rest of us feel for an America that is never going to
return. Those on this side of the great divide have come to terms with
it and seek to build a new identity that provides community and a sense
of purpose. The civic nationalist just wallow in the self-pity and
nostalgia. They are the new flagellants, who think more self-harm will
solve the problem.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
