---
title: "Dissident Diversity"
date: "2019-01-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16164"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16164"
---

Back in the 1980’s, something often remarked upon by conservative
writers was the diversity of opinion on the Right versus the Left. By
that point the Cold War version of the American Left was on fumes. Their
policy ideas had a threadbare feel to them. Most of their leading
figures struck people as anachronism. They would talk about labor
issues, as if men still worked in factories and women were secretaries.
The Right, in contrast, seemed to have a great wealth of ideas and idea
makers in tune with the age.

Since the end of the Cold War, the Buckley Right has declined into a
dull recitation of lines from a catechism that is no longer relevant to
the age. The only thing interesting about the legacy Right is watching
the neocons figure out how they will rejoin and subvert the Left side of
the political class. There is also the death watch for their legacy
publications like National Review. Those are interesting for amusement
purposes. Otherwise, there has not been an interesting idea from that
crew since the Contract with America.

For its part, the Left has evolved into a weird spirit cult chasing
after bogeymen like racism and white supremacy. From an anthropological
perspective, that is an interesting thing to observe, but it is entirely
without intellectual footing. It’s also infuriating to see [bellowing
primitives](https://www.nytimes.com/by/amy-harmon) point and sputter at
a heretic so the rage heads of their cult can attack the person. The sad
spectacle of the House voting to condemn Steve King as a blasphemer
speaks to the madness that has gripped our ruling class.

What is remarkable about the emptiness of the intellectual class is that
the West is faced with problems that are unique to this age. Automation,
for example, promises to reduce the need for labor to a point where most
adults will be idle. The demographics of the West, where populations
begin to decline, and age is an entirely new problem. The only country
working this problem is Japan. These are complex and novel challenges,
but the intellectual class is mostly silent on these and other pressing
issues.

If you are looking for intellectual diversity and depth, the action is
all on this side of the great divide. As the [James Watson
story](https://www.vox.com/2019/1/15/18182530/james-watson-racist)
reveals, the only place you can find honest discussion of the human
sciences is on this side. Whether it is evolution, human cognitive
ability or population genetics, the dissident right is the only place
where people are discussing the amazing breakthroughs in the human
sciences. The most interesting writing and commentary is now on outlaw
blogs and podcasts.

Of course, it is politics and current events where you find most people
on either side of the great divide, but again, the interesting stuff is
all on this side. That is where you see the great diversity on the
dissident right. Jared Taylor, for example, is working the same material
as Steve Sailer, but arriving at entirely different places politically.
In fact, the two of them have debated in the past. When was the last
time anyone debated anything on the other side? The closest we got is
Tucker Carlson slapping down Ben Shapiro.

There is also an aesthetic diversity to this side. The tone and material
of Counter Currents is completely different from what you get at The
Right Stuff. Greg Johnson is more in tune with the trans-occidental
intellectual movement, so his material and commentary is more
meta-political. The TRS guys are casual, appealing to an earthier
audience. Their primary focus is on domestic issues and identity
politics. There is plenty of crossover, but they are clearly appealing
to different temperaments and a different aesthetic.

That is the other thing you see on this side that is missing from the
other side. There is an irreverence and a *joie de vivre* on this side.
Say what you want about the TRS guys, but they are having fun being bad.
RamZPaul is having a blast interviewing curious people on his YouTube
channel. The people on the other side always look like they caught whiff
of a bad odor. What passes for humor is a host saying wooden gag lines
about Bluermpf. “Orange man bad!” Applause sign lights. Audience cheers.
Rinse. Repeat.

When people talk about the political divide in the West, they often
focus on practical matters like nationalism versus globalism. The divide
is between the search for factual truth versus the search for moral
truth. Not only are the goals different, but the methods are
different. Both sides look at the human condition and wonder why things
are as they are, but one side seeks to explain the great diversity of
man, while the other side seeks to exterminate these differences, to
reach a moral end.

That is why there is so much more diversity of thought and opinion on
this side. There can be only one moral framework, one set of moral
truths. If two men say they are Jesus, one of them must be wrong, thus
the ever narrowing of our intellectual class. As the free thinkers and
the curious are cast out, they find their way to this side, having to
first cross the river of the damned, accepting biological reality.
Living outside the favor of the popular gods is not always a lot of fun,
but it vastly more interesting than the other side.
