---
title: "Echo & The Cucky Men"
date: "2019-05-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17578"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17578"
---

One of the strange aspects of the Obama years was how much of what they
did was an effort to address old wounds that still haunted the Left.
Health care reform is the obvious example. The Left never got over how
Bill Clinton threw the Left overboard after Hillary’s health care
debacle led to the 1994 election wipe-out. The Obama effort was all
about addressing that old wound. The ultimate product looked like the
result of a revenge fantasy, mostly because it was about addressing
those old wounds.

It was not just health care. The entirety of the Obama administration
was about the past, despite his endless jabbering about the glorious
future. Their dealings with Iraq and Afghanistan were mostly about
“proving” Bush was wrong and they were right about how to respond to
9/11. Their Iran policy was a do-over of the Carter years and their
Russia policy was a do-over of the 1980’s. They even pitched Obama at
one point as the Progressive answer to Reagan, He was
<a href="https://www.brookings.edu/opinions/is-obama-the-new-reagan/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">their Ronald Reagan</a>.

It’s not just the Left playing the old records and dreaming of better
days. The 2016 Trump campaign was a WWE version of the Reagan campaign
of 1980. The slogan “Make American Great Again” was borrowed from the
Gipper. He ran on the slogan “Let’s make America great again” in his
successful 1980 presidential campaign. It’s pretty clear Trump intends
to use some version of “It’s Morning In America” in his reelection
campaign next year.
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NpwdcmjBgNA"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This campaign ad</a> will
feature a panda, rather than a grizzly.

Of course, his presidency has been a call back to past events as well.
The seditious conspiracy against him by the FBI and CIA is an echo of
what the Left accused Nixon of plotting back in the 1970’s.
<a href="https://twitter.com/mtracey/status/1131165413486866432"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Both sides</a> are replaying
the past as a do-over. Team Trump is going win the Watergate this time,
while the Left is sure Trump is going to pull off his face at any moment
and reveal himself to be Tricky Dick. In this version, to keep with the
current age, <a
href="http://www.teapartytribune.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/crazy.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Peter Strzok</a> is the
soy-man version of G. Gordon Liddy.

The endless echoes of politics past is sure to continue, as we see in
the Democratic presidential field. The only two people talking about the
present are Gabbard and Yang, both of whom will be ushered off the stage
by Labor Day. The rest all sound like museum exhibits from previous
eras. <a
href="https://www.latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-biden-presidential-candidate-nostalgia-20190522-story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Joe Biden</a> is actually
running on the slogan “Make America Normal Again.” That sounds a lot
like Carter’s campaign in 1976, after Nixon and Watergate, where he
promised to restore dignity to politics.

Politics is always a repeat of the past, to some degree, but what makes
this age a weird echo is debates themselves. The biggest issues facing
the West are never discussed, outside of dissident circles. Trump ran on
immigration and trade, but no one talks about those anymore. The
Democrats could be running on the student debt issue or the crisis
facing the young people of the middle-class. Instead they are talking
about socialism, as if it is this brand new idea that has never been
tried.

One reason for this entirely backward looking perspective is
demographics. Both political parties are built to compete for the votes
of Baby Boomers, who remain the largest identifiable cohort. The Boomers
are entering the last turn of their race, so inevitably they are
sentimental and nostalgic. The fact that the most likely contest in 2020
is between an octogenarian and a septuagenarian, both white and both
male, will allow Baby Boomer voters to feel like they are still young
and hip.

That’s probably the single biggest cultural problem facing America
today. The Baby Boom generation is not going to age gracefully. Instead
of picking which one of their kids will take their keys away, they will
keep a white-knuckled grip on the wheel until the country goes over the
cliff. Nancy Pelosi should be in a rest home right now. Instead she
wanders around the capital in her bathrobe and slippers, the third most
powerful person in the Imperial government, unable to remember her own
name.

The blame is not all on the Boomers. As America becomes
majority-minority, the cost of cobbling together a coalition goes up.
Bringing blacks and angry Jewish feminists together into a coalition is
near impossible. Delivering anything to the white middle-class means
standing in front of the open sewer that is Progressive morality.
Multicultural America is an ungovernable riot of competing interests, so
it is a lot easier to go the nostalgia route and court the white Baby
Boomers. It’s easy and fun.

There’s also the fact that no one wants to face up to the truth of the
current situation in present day America. Inviting in 50 million
strangers was a bad idea. Fixing it means telling most of them to go
home. Civil Rights was arguably noble and decent, but the downstream
result was a disaster. Bringing back free association is too scary for
the soft men and unstable women of the ruling class. Our political class
is mostly <a
href="https://images.axios.com/nfT3gUUcVo2oRvp5raZWaV8beRE=/0x47:3269x1886/1920x1080/2018/03/22/1521718752843.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">cucks</a> and <a
href="https://cdn.cnn.com/cnnnext/dam/assets/171210094455-adam-schiff-sotu-12-10-2017-large-169.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">kooks</a>, unable and
unwilling to muster anything resembling courage.

That’s where we are now. America is a country ruled by cucks who are
afraid of the future, so they rummage around in the past. They’re like
children putting on shows for their parents, wearing their clothes and
singing their songs. It’s all echoes of the past and cucking to current
fads. It is an entirely useless ruling elite that will have to be wiped
away, before we can face the future. Barring an asteroid strike and
societal collapse, it means waiting for the great Baby Boomer die off to
clear the path forward.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">please contribute here</a>.
