---
title: "The Case For Reparations Talk"
date: "2019-02-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16651"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16651"
---

Presidential hopeful Kamala Harris has tried to stir things up by coming
out with [a
plan](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/2020-dems-back-idea-of-reparations-for-descendants-of-slaves)
for reparations. Her scheme is short on details, but it is basically an
as yet undefined special tax break for qualified people. She is not the
only left-wing candidate supporting the idea, but she is the first to
talk about it in any specifics. It is an idea the radicals all think is
a winning idea. For now, most are content to offer lip service, while
making references to Ta-Nahisi Coates and his 2014 essay [The Case For
Reparations](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2014/06/the-case-for-reparations/361631/).

There is an assumption among white radicals that all blacks have
committed that essay to memory. In reality, 90% of blacks have never
heard of Coates or his essay. That is because Coates is the sort of
boutique black that is only popular with the sorts of bourgeois radicals
you see on the college campus or the Acela. He is the sort of black that
only Progressives can love, in that he confirms all of their deepest
held beliefs about their righteousness and never dares ask the wrong
questions.

The amusing thing about their love for Coates is that he tends to make
the case you often hear on this side of the great divide. His essay is
so poorly written and constructed, it is nearly impossible to critique,
as that would require taking it seriously. It veers between conspiracy
theory and emotive gibberish. There is a paranormal quality to much of
it, as he works from the assumption that racism is this spirit force
that manipulates whites into doing bad things to blacks, without them
ever noticing it.

Of course, [the usual
suspects](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/kamala-harris-and-elizabeth-warren-are-wrong-we-shouldnt-pay-reparations-for-slavery/2019/02/26/8cbf9c66-39fa-11e9-a06c-3ec8ed509d15_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.ab4e4d03b53a)
are in a panic over this sudden burst of honesty from the radicals
leading the anti-white coalition. They will never say it, but they know
Hillary lost because she was unable to fool enough white voters. If
whites wake up from their hallucinations and suddenly see things as they
are, the coalition of the ascendant is in a lot of trouble. Telling Baby
Boomers that they plan to take their loot and give it to blacks is the
fastest way to get them off the golf course and into activism.

That is, of course, part of the plan. The Democrats always run far Left
in their primary and then come back to less insane positions in the
general. They can rely on the media to memory hole their nuttier
comments and positions. They can also count on Republicans to never
bring this stuff up. More important, they will never have to explain
their plan or defend it against a thoughtful response. Instead, they
will rely on the usual suspects in Conservative Inc. to play their role
as the racist bigot opposed to reparations.

That is an important thing to get here. The Left is all about morality.
Whatever details they offer are just the minimum to complete the stage
set. What they are doing here is carving out two roles, one for
themselves and one for the Boomer right-winger, who seems to only care
about his money, rather than justice. The role for Lefty in this play is
to be seen as heroically defending the helpless non-whites, who are
endlessly under assault from the institutional white privilege. The
right-wing Boomer always falls for this gag.

There is a better response, one that the media and palace guards from
Conservative Inc. will fight to make sure it never happens. That answer
is to agree, in principle, with the concept of reparations for the
descendants of slaves. The one condition is that it has to be a good
faith effort to arrive at a number that *pays the debt in full*. Since
we are mostly talking about cash payments, whatever that number is and
whatever the degree of vengeance required, the final number has to stamp
the debt “paid in full.”

That is, after all, the point of reparations. The person claiming to
have been harmed seeks to be made whole, by the person causing the harm.
After a war, the winner will impose reparations on the loser, in order
to facilitate peace. The cost of winning and imposing peace is imposed
on the loser as both punishment and restitution. Once the debt is paid,
that is the end of it. If payments are supposed to continue into
forever, without end, then that’s not reparations. That is tribute and
that is what needs to be established.

That is why a thoughtful person should always respond to this issue with
a willingness to discuss the issue. The first question to Harris should
be, “Is this a good faith effort to reach a final settlement, where the
debt to blacks is fully paid?” Most likely, she would not know how to
answer the question. The reason for that is she does not understand the
definition of the word reparations. It just resonates with her target
audience. What she and they, however, have in mind is tribute, a
*browngeld* to be paid forever.

This is why responding to this stuff on-line with nutty demands like
“Well, I’ll give them reparations once they return to Africa” is as dumb
as blacks thinking they will be getting an extra check on top of what
they get now. It just reinforces the moral argument made by the
radicals, while blinding the intended victims to what is happening.
White people need to understand that they will pay. That is written in
stone. The question is, what do we get for those payments? When is this
debt finally stamped “paid in full?”

Inevitably, the radicals representing the coalition of the ascendant
cannot put a number on it and they cannot agree that there is a number.
That is because they are talking about tribute, rather than reparations.
The question that must always follow a demand for tribute is, “If we
refuse, then what?” Tribute must always include the threat of force and
that is what has been true about the Left for a long time. It is why
they avoid facts and logic. They make the demands with the assumption
everyone knows what “or else” means.

Another angle to this approach is it would inevitably reveal another
truth to what is happening in this age. The radicals would not be able
to limit the scope to the descendants of former slaves. Look at the
language all of them are using. They never specifically say descendants
of slaves. Harris simply says, “qualified people of all races.” The
reason for this is they are not championing the cause of American
blacks, they are leading a coalition of non-whites, many of whom just
got here, against white people.

For example, most whites are unaware that South Asians are in on this.
Spend time in the Imperial Capital and you will notice most of the IT
work is done by Indians. Africans, as in people from Africa, can go
through special doors to get into colleges and graduate schools, simply
because they are black. Latinos have their free passes too. None of
these people have plausible grievance against American whites, but they
get the handout because they are not white. That is a reality white
people need to face.

Seriously discussing this helps break the conditioning that seems to
keep the older generations in a daze, as if they are drugged. The
ascendant will never embrace the culture of American whites. They seek
to drain the resources and power from whites, so they can dictate terms.
This is not a competition they seek to win and then be generous to the
vanquished. There is no generosity in their heart. We know this because
there is no gratitude there either. For them, reparations are vengeance
with a dollar sign.

The point of our project is to raise awareness and wake up as many
whites as possible to the new reality of this age. This is an
opportunity to do just that. To allow mindless civic nationalists to
lapse into their programmed responses is a mistake. These normie whites
need to be slapped across the face and one way to do that is to embrace
the issue of reparations seriously and dispassionately. Ask the
question, “What is the number that pays the debt in full?” The answer is
another red pill.
