---
title: "Proof Of Concept"
date: "2019-10-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18875"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18875"
---

The NBA’s public relations disaster with China is one of those
unanticipated events that is both amusing and clarifying. The amusing
part is easy. The people who run the NBA are the worst sorts of people,
so watching them get slapped around by the Chinese government brings
lots of pleasure. Seeing the Chinese carry on like hysterical girls is a
lot of fun too. The paper-thin skin of the ChiComs is a reminder that
despite their tough talk, they live in mortal fear of the society over
whom they rule.

The clarifying part is the most important, as it reminds us that despite
what our rulers tell us, countries still matter. China likes consuming
product, but they like being Chinese more than they like watching the
human flea circus that is the NBA. When the choice is between who they
are and consuming product, the former is going to win. As John
Derbyshire <a
href="https://vdare.com/articles/china-on-john-derbyshire-s-mind-is-a-sputnik-moment-coming-could-the-u-s-respond-if-it-did"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">pointed out</a>, the Chinese
are focused on becoming a global power, not folding themselves into the
bland nothingness of the global community.

Of course, what makes this so clear is that the NBA is a billion-dollar
enterprise that throws its weight around America in the culture wars.
When George Zimmerman shot the hoodlum Trayvon Martin, the NBA players
took the side of the hoodlum. The players would wear hoodie sweatshirts
like the hoodlum. When the Ferguson cop shot Michael Brown, the players
came out against the cop. The league and its players drip with
anti-white animus and no one in authority dares say anything about it.

In contrast, one unfortunate tweet and the NBA owners were crawling on
their bellies, begging the ChiComs for mercy. Lebron James, the league’s
biggest star, was seen volunteering to harvest organs from executed
Chinese political prisoners. As Derbyshire pointed out, it was a display
of raw power. The NBA will tell Donald Trump to take a hike, but they
won’t dare get on the wrong side of the communists. The ChiComs have no
fear of the human flea circus. They know who holds the power.

This incident gets to some eternal truths about human society. One of
those is that power springs from identity. The man who is confident in
who he is, will project power, regardless of his circumstances. This
scales up very well. Societies that have a strong sense of identity, can
punch well above their weight. You see this in Eastern Europe where
countries like Poland and Hungary are successfully squaring off with the
EU over immigration policy. The EU can’t stop the Poles from being
Polish.

Of course, that strong identity is not enough. The people have to
believe they have a shared destiny. They need a coherent narrative to
explain how it is they are a people and why they have a future. It does
not matter if that narrative is true. What people believe will always
trump facts. That is another one of those eternal truths about humanity.
The Chinese believe they are a people with a future, one where China
dictates terms to the world. That’s what makes them so bold.

All of this is a roundabout way of getting to the great chain of
causality. The starting place for a human society is the people, the
biology. Whatever the potential of the people is the potential of the
nation. The Chinese are a smart, resourceful and resilient people, who
have been around a long time. The reason China went from something close
to feudalism in the middle of the last century to a global powerhouse
today, is there is a lot of human capital in China. China has good
biology.

The next link in the great chain of causality is culture and that’s
something China has more than anyone. It probably has to do with the
homogeneity. The Han are roughly 92% of the Chinese population. The
other people are relegated to the fringe. When there is no need to
accommodate differences, the culture can concentrate. Whatever the
reason, Chinese culture is as strong as any on earth. So strong, in
fact, it could endure the homicidal maniacs of the Cultural Revolution.

China is the great proof of concept. They have the biology right and
they have the culture right, so they have been able to survive
disastrous institutions, insane economics and homicidal politics. If you
get the biology right and the culture right, you have a chance to get
the rest of it right. There are no guarantees and China is proof of that
as well. That’s the other side of it. If you get the biology right and
the culture right, you can survive the mistakes made downstream in
politics and economics.

Western globalists have had to lie to themselves about China, in order
to square the fact that China is prospering despite rejecting Western
liberal democracy. To accept China as she is would mean rejecting the
great multicultural project. The looming conflict with China will drive
that point home to the West and it may be a good thing in the end.
Whether or not there is time for Western nations to pull out of their
death spiral and get their biology right is unknown, but they will have
the example of China.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
