---
title: "The Usurper"
date: "2019-07-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18057"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18057"
---

Origins myths are a natural element to all human organization, whether
it is a great family, an enterprise or a nation. The founder of the
great family is lionized as not only good at making money, but also as a
great man. In fact, his great wealth is seen as a result of his great
deeds. Similarly, the successful business will celebrate the founders as
something more than hard working men who got lucky. Usually they are
cast as plucky underdogs, who beat the odds because they were moral men.

For a people, the mythologizing gets more grandiose. The origin myths
not only explain the founding of the nation, but justify the current
order. The social arrangements, the type of government and the people in
charge are the work of providence. The celebration of national holidays
are part of reinforcing the founding myths and most especially the moral
order. In America, the endless flag waving and saccharine patriotism is
a daily reminder that the current order is God’s will.

The reason for these myths is that all authority comes from usurping it.
The great families of a nation arose because the founders of those
families knocked off the previous great families. In England, for
example, many of the great families made their fortune fighting for the
king in the 100 Years War. They went over to France, killed a bunch of
rich people and took their wealth back home to England. For most of
human history great men rose to fame by putting other great men to the
sword.

The successful business is less bloody, in most cases, but the founders
were still usurpers who made their name at the expense of others. Maybe
their business success came at the expense of established companies in
the field. Maybe they used connivance or trickery to out-compete their
rivals. It does not matter as wealth does not spring from nothing. As in
all competition, there are winners and losers. The great company was
founded by men who usurped existing great companies.

Because all societies begin low and violent, purity and grandeur arise
from distance from their origin. The rulers and the people must put
distance between themselves and the origins of their people, in order to
give purpose to the perpetuation of their people, but they can never be
disconnected from their origins. Instead, they mythologize them in order
to both disguise the reality of their beginnings, but celebrate
themselves as part of the natural order. The origin myth is a pretty lie
that keeps us looking forward.

The most obvious example of how this works is the Lincoln fetish we see
with our ruling class in America. Both sides venerate Lincoln and the
Gettysburg address, The Civil War has been cast as the second founding,
a purification ritual that addressed the original sin of slavery and
republicanism in the founding. Rather than being seen as a break from
the founding, which is surely was, it is a continuation of it. Lincoln
the usurper, is replaced with
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=15363"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Lincoln the saint,</a> who
saved the republic.

The Gettysburg Address now holds more emotional power for our elites
than the actual founding documents. At some level, Lincoln certainly
knew he was a usurper and that speech is pretty good proof of it. He
allegedly jotted it down without much thought, but it shows all the
signs of a man who knew he destroyed the old order and was now tasked
with creating a new one. Starting with a lie about his own motivations
was the most obvious place to start. It was the usurper announcing his
victory.

The great compromise after the Civil War was to allow the defeated to
hang onto their heroes in symbolic form. In order to avoid a genocide,
which is what abolitionists surely desired, the South was allowed to
exist as a conquered people, but with their memories and some of their
customs intact. Whether it was conscious or just an inevitable result of
the war, a grand compromise evolved that allowed the South to retain its
unique identity, but subsume it into the overall identity of the new
nation.

Of course, this is why the current ruling class is obsessed now with
erasing all traces of the South, by toppling over statues, desecrating
graves and erasing images of the actual founders of the United States.
These are people haunted by their own illegitimate claims on power, so
they are removing anything that reminds them of a past in which they
played no part. It’s also why the past is being systematically colorized
to write in strangers to the family tree of America.

That’s why these acts are so compelling to the emerging multicultural
ruling elites. For them, this is not about revenge or spiting people
they hate. They are, in fact, a consecration of their own authority.
They are symbolically giving birth to their new nation by destroying the
old. For the usurper, the victim is only important in so far as he has
what the usurper desires. It’s not vengeance that drives these people.
It is a desire to mythologize and legitimize their own authority.

The implication here is that the die is cast. It is no longer a question
of *if* America is taken over by the coalition of the ascendant, but
rather how long this process will play out and how it will end. There is
no restoration of old white America. That door closed decades ago, when
the borders were flung open to the world. If this emerging ruling elite
is to be toppled, their power will need to be seized by a new usurper, a
group that seeks power and legitimacy by whatever means are available.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
