---
title: "Rebellious Thoughts"
date: "2019-08-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18535"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18535"
---

Most people reading this will claim that they are not surprised that the
people behind the seditious plot to overturn the 2016 election will not
face charges. To be on the dissident right requires a degree of cynicism
about political institutions. Democracy assumes things about humans that
the dissident knows are false. Therefore, a system relying on people to
act in a way that is against their nature is doomed to fail. That and
the people attracted to democratic politics are always the worst society
has to offer.

No matter how clear-eyed you are about the nature of man, politicians
always have the ability to disappoint even the most cynical. If most
people on this side of the great divide are being honest, they are let
down by the news that the oleaginous James Comey will escape justice for
his crimes. There was that flicker of hope that William Barr would not
be another slithering reptile and do the right thing. Again, these
people always have the ability to disappoint even the most jaded among
us.

The thing is, there has always been a sense that these people operate by
a different set of rules than the rest of us. It’s such an overused
trope that when you see a James Comey type of character in a movie, they
seem one-dimensional. They’re just the stock bureaucratic bad guy
everyone knows how to hate. The same is true of the duplicitous villain
like Bill Barr. In movies, that’s the guy the hero foolishly trusts,
only to learn that he is more villainous than the James Comey character.

That said, the reason that most people have been holding out hope that
this seditious plot would be prosecuted is they don’t really believe
everyone in the ruling class is a villainous gangster. Again, even the
jaded on this side of the divide thought something would come from this
caper, even if it was just the release of a documents showing there was
a plot. Maybe a few low-level punks like Lisa Page and Peter Strzok
would get a show trial and be sent off to Club Fed for a few years.

It is increasingly clear, that nothing will happen. Bill Barr is just
the latest flim-flam man to bamboozle Donald Trump into trusting him. It
is clear now that his assignment is to cover up the crimes of official
Washington. It has been six months since he was authorized to start
releasing the classified documents describing the actions of the FBI
during this caper. So far, nothing has been released. In fact, Bill Barr
is fighting public disclosure of documents a federal judge ordered
released months ago.

The path to revolution starts with dissatisfaction. The people are
unhappy with their lot and begin to demand changes. At first, they
appeal to their rulers, who they assume want to do a good job as rulers.
When that fails, they begin to demand their rulers make reforms and
address their concerns. At some point, the people realize they cannot
appeal to the humanity or the pragmatism of their rulers. Reform will
never come, so the last two options are knuckle under or revolt against
the system and it rulers.

There seems to be a scale along which people move from pacified to
rebellious that is determined by their view of their rulers. At the
pacified end, they are happy with how things are going in their personal
lives and assume it is in everyone’s interest to make the system work.
The rulers benefit from a happy populace, so even if they indifferent to
the people, they work to make them happy. The system of rules and the
people operating the system are working about as well as possible, so
there is peace.

At the other end is where people no longer believe the system is just
and that the people ruling over it are beyond appeals to reason and
humanity. In fact, the people in charge relish the injustice of the
system, maybe taking extra measures to inflict chaos and mayhem on the
people. The system is so bad and the condition so intolerable, it is
assumed that anything must be better. At this end, the people no longer
view their rulers as human men. They are just the face of an evil
system.

As Bill Barr slowly and efficiently covers up the seditious plot and
other crimes committed by the FBI and DOJ during the Obama years, it is
not unreasonable to wonder how far down the scale this moves the
political center. Twenty-five years ago, most dissidents would have
thought this level of corruption was improbable, if not entirely
impossible. The typical normie was still sure the next election would
bring reformers, who would chase off the crooks and clean up the system.

It’s hard to gauge these things, because our biases come into play. If
you are an accelerationist, for example, the Comey result is good news.
You want to think that this moves everyone closer to the “burn baby
burn” camp. If you are a Trump-truster, you probably just tune this
stuff out, as it contradicts your preferred narrative. Maybe you
convince yourself that letting Comey walk is part of some super-secret
4-D chess game Trump and Barr are playing to entrap the deep state in
their web.

The likely answer right now is most normal white people are a bit
shocked by what is happening, unable to process it. It’s one thing to
overindulge in negativity and self-pity, calling the pols a bunch of
crooks. That’s just a coping strategy. It is another thing to realize
that it really is hopeless and the system is beyond redemption. It’s
like that moment when you decide to find a new job or change careers.
Nothing changes on the outside, but inside there is a revolution in your
thinking and outlook.

That probably explains why the ruling classes in revolutionary times
make so many costly blunders. In retrospect, it is baffling, but in the
moment the people in charge look out and see nothing but calm. They
conclude that things are going well enough that they don’t have to
change course. Maybe that’s why Barr is working hard to cover up the
crime and corruption. He thinks once the whole thing is dispensed with,
it will no longer vex people. Trust in the system will slowly return.

Again, it is hard to gauge these things in the moment. One thing we know
is that dissident ranks are growing. Even the Left is admitting it. The
popularity of dissident sites, podcasts and video shows are at record
highs. More important, the general sense within dissident ranks is that
reform is impossible. We not only need a new ruling class, we need a new
system. The center of gravity for the opposition to the status quo is
moving further down that scale toward rebellion.

That said, it is becoming increasingly difficult for the civic
nationalist to operate in anything but a fantasy world. Whatever you may
think of Trump, the result of the last three years is proof that
elections don’t matter. This shameless refusal by public officials to
apply the law to Washington insiders makes a mockery of the rule of law.
Throw in the stunning dishonesty of the mass media and the metastasizing
surveillance state and it is impossible for even the most gullible to
remain a civic nationalist.

Even accounting for all the various biases, a sober minded view of
things suggests we are rapidly heading to that place where the people
are faced with two choices. It’s either knuckle under and surrender any
sense of dignity or revolt against a system that is beyond reform. Maybe
like that guy in the cubicle who decided to quit, that’s where everyone
is right now. Or, maybe most people are like the other guy, resigned to
a life as a cubicle slave. Events suggest we will find out sooner,
rather than later.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
