---
title: "We have A Word For That"
date: "2019-02-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - HBD
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16638"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16638"
---

One thing you cannot help but notice, if you travel, is that English is
just about everyone’s second language. In many parts of the world, their
second language is almost as common as their first. In Iceland, for
example, you hear as much English in the streets as Icelandic. The
locals just seem to assume that people they do not know are going to
prefer English, while people they know will prefer Icelandic. In effect,
they have a public language and private language. This is something you
see in many places.

It used to be that French was the language of diplomacy. It is where we
get the expression *lingua franca*. Of course, long before that, Latin
was the official language of global affairs. In the case of French, it
was simply a matter of France being the dominant power on the Continent,
so French was the language of diplomacy among Europeans, but not the
rest of the world. Latin was the language of the Church, so while the
whole of Europe was Catholic, it was a useful common tongue for
diplomacy.

The rise of English is a slightly different matter. For sure, the Pax
Americana has a lot to do with English becoming the diplomatic language
of the West, but it does not explain it becoming the public language.
That is probably due to the rise of global corporations in the last
fifty years. Many European countries started teaching English in
schools, because it would be useful in the workplace. American companies
would be more inclined to hire a German who spoke some English than an
Italian with no English.

Power and money are always good answers to most questions, because they
are easy to understand and confirm things we like to believe about the
world. We want to think that there are great benefits to being rich or
powerful, like imposing your language and religion on those over whom
you rule. There is certainly some truth to it, but it does not explain
everything. For example, the prevalence of English in the Nordic
countries is much higher than in France or Italy. The Germans have a lot
of English speakers too.

Another possibility for why English has become the universal language is
the rise of science and technology as cultural forces. English is
extremely useful in science, because of its precision and flexibility.
English is a not a language with a lot of words that have two very
different meanings. For example, study and studio mean entirely
different things. In French you would use the same word, and the context
would make the distinction. Few words in English need context to have a
full meaning.

The other thing about English is it adopts new words, either from other
languages or out of the blue, with great speed. [This
post](http://johnhawks.net/weblog/topics/communication/decolonizing-science-communication-zulu-2019.html)
by paleontologist John Hawks is an amusing example of how the
flexibility of language works with science and technology. Most
languages do not adopt loan words very well. Instead, they have to take
existing words and combine them together to get something like the
meaning of the new word. German is hilarious with this. Lots of
Zungenbrechers in German with new words.

It is possible that English is a better language for science and
technology, where new abstract concepts are common. It is easier to
invent a new word or borrow a word, like *synergy* for example, and
imbue it with a definition that captures the new idea, rather than force
the new idea into the old grammar. The word *synergy* was kicking around
psychology for a century, before it was picked up by tech companies and
turned into a catchy word to describe involuntary cooperation through
the use of technology.

Of course, the implication here is that English evolved with people who
were better at science and technology. It is certainly true that the
Industrial Revolution started in England and first spread to northern
Europe. It is certainly true that Northern Europeans remain the most
inventive people on earth. This is probably just a coincidence or
perhaps something to do with ecology, as everyone knows there are no
differences between people anywhere at any time under any conditions. To
suggest otherwise is bad.

Even so, the rapid adoption of English as the official second language
in European countries with a common heritage is suggestive. These
countries have also always had a high and low version of their languages
as well. High German is thought to derive from the [Suebi
people](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suebi). Low German, the various
German dialects in central Europe, come from the other tribes. Perhaps
having a public language and private language, a public custom and
private custom, is the real root of this phenomenon, rather than modern
technology.

Regardless of the cause, English is becoming the official language of
the planet, even as the ratio of Europeans to everyone else rapidly
shrinks. Communicating in English is more efficient and more accurate
across the wide swath of humanity. There are exceptions at the fringes,
but there always are. In the main, English is becoming the public
language of the world. That means the elite of the future will be
plucked from those with the cognitive skills best suited for mastering
the complexity of English thought.

That is the part you can see in your daily life. There are South Asians,
for example, who have a delicate mastery of English. There are others
who are comical eruptions of misnomers and butchered grammar. No matter
how hard they try, they just cannot think in English or even pretend to
think in English. As a result, their mastery of the language is limited
to mimicry. Since language is about communicating abstract concepts,
these people will never be able to rise to the upper reaches of the
cognitive class.

This is usually where the bad people bring up the phrase [Sapir-Whorf
hypothesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linguistic_relativity), which
then results in the usual suspects leaping from the bushes yelling “That
had been debunked!” In truth, the strong version has simply been
dismissed, because it does not fit in with the blank slate argument.
Spend time around people, who speak English as a second language, you
will notice that some are thinking in English, while others are just
interpreting their native thoughts into English sounds.

It is pleasant to think that the dominance of English portends good
things for native English speakers and their cousins in Europe, but the
Suebi may be the better example. They left a lot of their culture, but
none of their people. There are claims by some to be the decedents of
the Subei, but there is no proof as of yet. Most likely, the Subei were
wiped out by strangers who flowed over the borders.
