---
title: "True Reform"
date: "2019-12-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19260"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19260"
---

A popular retort to the gold bugs, those people who insisted that all
the world’s problems stemmed from fiat money, was that a government so
corrupt you needed hard money to control it, was so corrupt it would
find a way around hard money. The point of the expression was mostly to
cut off discussion about the dangers of fiat money, as there was never
any point in discussing it with the gold bugs. Like all fanatics, they
saw only that which confirmed their fanaticism.

There was a subtle truth in the expression. That is, the nature of money
is a reflection of the ruling class that created it. Even with hard
money, there is a connection between the type of coin and the type of
ruler. Hard money is the product of private government, so it reflected
the interests of private government. When Kings Offa and Charlemagne
adopted coinage, they did so because it increased their power.
Seigniorage is a great benefit to the person who controls the minting of
coins.

The reason hard money lost favor in the 20th century is the nature of
government changed in the West. We had moved from private government to
public government, so the value of money to the ruling class changed.
The king liked hard money as it was good for him. In liberal democracy,
fiat money benefits the ruling elite. Now that we are in a post-national
world, credit money is the coin of the realm. In other words, money is a
consequence of the ruling class, not a cause of it.

This is an important point to keep in mind when thinking about the
current crisis. The institutions are not the cause of bad government,
but a byproduct of the corrupt people infesting the ruling class. In
most cases, the institutions have not changed all that much over the
last century, but how they are wielded has changed. The current ruling
class has no respect for the intent of those institutions. They see them
only as tools that they can wield to their personal benefit.

The courts are a great example. In the course of a couple generations,
the legal system has gone from a safeguard to civil order to a threat to
it. The courts themselves have not changed in any major way. The
structure of the legal process and the laws themselves are mostly the
same. There has been no change to the Constitution in generations. Yet,
the same court that would have laughed homosexual marriage out of the
room a generation ago declared it a sacred right.

The same can be said of the mass media. Before the current ruling class
took over the media, there was bias, but there was also a respect for
the need to inform the public about current events. Newspapers took it
as a duty to do things like local news and offering some platform for
alternative opinion. It was not ideal, but the ruling class still
respected civic virtue enough to try. The radicalized subversive, who
control the media today, see the media as a weapon to use against the
people.

This is why talking about reform misses the point. Those who think we
can constrain this ruling class with changes to the structure of society
are embracing a mechanistic view of society. They see society as a
machine that can be tuned to make the people better within it. It is the
mindset of communists and libertarians, who ultimately believe humans
are infinitely malleable, even those who rise to the top. It is also a
conceit by people who think they have the key to reaching paradise.

The fact is, no reform that would work against the interests of the
ruling class will ever see the light of day. These people are soulless
and degenerate, but they are not stupid or naive. They understand
perfectly well how they remain in power and it sure as heck is not by
allowing social reformers to strip them of their authority. Any reform
they cannot prevent, will ultimately be subverted, as that is their
nature. Just a dog returns to his vomit, this ruling class will subvert
orderly society.

On the other hand, the people in charge love talking about reform,
because it keeps any opposition to them busy on fool’s errands. You’ll
note that Washington is full of reform plans and people peddling them.
Every politician promises to be a reformer. Our elections are nothing
but pitch men promoting the latest reform potion. The whole point of
these distractions is to keep the public from noticing that after every
election, the same people remain in charge and the polices never change.

The hard truth of this age is that the ruling class is beyond reform,
because they are no longer us. We cannot appeal to their better natures,
because they don’t share our nature or see us as them. Just look at the
presidential race. One side is full of candidates promising to really
stick it to white people. On the other hand, Trump is endlessly touting
his efforts for Israel and various categories of non-whites. A political
class that proudly hates white people is not going to listen to the
appeals of white people.

Reform, if it is going to come, will do so in front of the hang man and
be championed by the billionaires who control the political class. Just
as the anarchist bombings scared the rich into ending immigration from
Eastern Europe, some crisis will have to scare the global pirates, who
run the West, into hiring a new political class. If that does not
happen, then we are headed for a revolutionary moment when this order is
violently overthrown as a matter of survival.

*The people can not be all and always, well informed. The part which is
wrong will be discontented in proportion to the importance of the facts
they misconceive. If they remain quiet under such misconceptions it is a
lethargy, the forerunner of death to the public liberty. we have had 13
states independent 11 years. There has been one rebellion. That comes to
one rebellion in a century and a half for each state.*

*What country before ever existed a century and a half without a
rebellion? What country can preserve it’s liberties if their rulers are
not warned from time to time that their people preserve the spirit of
resistance? Let them take arms. The remedy is to set them right as to
facts, pardon and pacify them. What signify a few lives lost in a
century or two? The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time
with the blood of patriots and tyrants. It is it’s natural manure.*

–Thomas Jefferson, Paris 1787

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
