---
title: "Travelogue: Scandza"
date: "2019-10-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18852"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18852"
---

Europe has what they call a protest culture, which varies from country
to country, but generally means a habit of doing politics in the street.
In America, street politics is purely a left-wing phenomenon and totally
synthetic. It’s mostly organized by the Democrat party and its
affiliated organs. In Europe, everyone does street politics and it is
not necessarily attached to the parties. As a result, dissidents and
nationalists know how to work around Antifa in order to organize and
hold events.

Without giving anything away, this morning I received a secret message,
telling me where to stand at a particular time and to have the secret
symbol visible. I arrived at the spot at the assigned time and in a few
minutes, a man walking a dog passed by. As he did, he dropped a crumpled
piece of paper onto the ground. I waited a few minutes until he was out
of range and picked up the paper. On it was the location of the event.
Others were sent to dead drops or met a courier at a specific location.

That is a bit of an exaggeration, but the point is to give Antifa as
little time as possible to organize a riot. It works pretty well, but
not this year. They were onto the location just as the doors opened. The
cops were there to support them, allowing Antifa to close down the
streets.  As a result, we were forced to shelter in place for the day.
Most people got in, but some of the speakers did not get there in time.
We could hear the lunatics bellowing in the street below, but otherwise
the event went off as planned.

As we see in the States, Antifa in Denmark enjoys broad police
protection. It is unlawful in Denmark to have a protest without a
permit. It’s always unlawful to block the streets and prevent people
from going about their business. The cops could have arrested the whole
lot of them, it was maybe fifty, and been done with it. Instead, they
let them run riot for the most part. The only thing the cops did was
keep them from attacking the building in which the conference was held.
The cops were there to support Antifa.

The cops in Copenhagen are a complete joke. They have all these tall fit
guys in the police, kitted out like storm-troopers, but they looked like
they would burst into tears if they had to confront the noodle armed
Antifa rioters. From what I gather, the police force is thoroughly
pussified. They spend more time learning pronouns than doing actual
police work. Based on my conversations with some of them, they would not
last an hour in Lagos. The locals would eat them – literally.

As far as the conference itself, it went a little sideways due to a
couple of speakers not getting into the conference. [Mark
Collett](https://www.youtube.com/user/mark318i) made it inside and he is
a very powerful speaker, who has a lot of great things to say. If you
have a chance to see Mark speak at an event, don’t miss it. He brings
the house down.
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLfhh63n0fWn0gXXKQ5NWvw"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Millennial Woes</a> also made
it inside, along with
<a href="http://tomsunic.com/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Dr. Tom Sunic</a> and Fróði Midjord. A lot of dissidents
have read and recommend Sunic’s book, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Homo-americanus-Child-Postmodern-Age/dp/1419659847"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Homo Americanus: Child of the
Postmodern Age</a>.

European events are a bit different than American events, which are much
closer to a business or academic conference in style. In Europe, they
start around noon, have short speeches, lots social time and a Q&A at
the end. They break up around eight, at which point people are
encouraged to socialize at a local bar or restaurant. There is a much
stronger emphasis on the socializing than we see in the US. I prefer it,
as it allows people to network and trade ideas about what they are
doing.

During the Q&A, someone asked about doxing. It is a different issue in
Europe than in the States, as you can’t get fired for politics. There
are some exceptions, but workers have more rights than in America. You
also get government health insurance, so you don’t have to worry about
losing that along with your job. In Europe, doxing is about harassing
and anathematizing a person. Collett and Fróði both come down in favor
of self-doxing in order to get it over with, so you can move on.

This is an old topic I have been debating with Fróði for months and we
don’t see eye to eye on it. I don’t think the Euros appreciate how
American dissidents are driven to poverty by the Left. I’ve tried to
explain this to them, but they don’t get it. A man with a family can’t
lose his job, his health insurance and his access to the banking system.
He has a duty to his family, which must always come first. Even a single
guy with nothing to lose still needs to eat and sleep indoors. The
stakes are a bit higher here.

It also ties into another topic that is popular at dissident conferences
and came up in this one during Q&A. In America, dissident politics tends
to attract losers and weirdos, who have nothing to lose. They don’t care
about being outed, because no one cares enough about them to bother. In
order to attract high quality people, we have to deal with their fear of
doxing. Allowing guys to stay anonymous is a part of doing business in
American politics now. That’s not the case in Europe.

Another thing that is different in Europe from the US is the dissident
movements spring from different roots. In Europe, the guys you see
organizing came out of hard right party politics and the underground
scene. Collett was in the British National Party, which is a fascist
party, for the most part. Fróði got into politics through the far-right
Scandinavian subculture and from reading people like William Pierce.
Over time, their views moderated and changed in the face of
multiculturalism and immigration.

In America, most dissidents came through libertarianism, but not through
organized structure like the Libertarian Party. Some came this way
through conventional conservative politics. Of course, some older guys
came this way through paleoconservatism. Hardly anyone was in organized
politics, much less underground politics. The typical guy you meet at a
dissident event in America was a libertarian until he spent time around
vibrancy and realized it could never work.

It is an interesting contrast, in that the Euros are trying to clean up
their act, while the Americans are trying to dirty up their act. For
example, Collett, who is a reformed drinker, is intolerant of alcohol
and drugs in his organization. He is relentless in his demand for making
the right presentation. He talks about health and fitness, personal
grooming and how to properly approach people on politics. In America,
dissidents are always on guard for cucking, to the point of distraction.

All-in-all it was a good time. There are things Americans can learn from
the Euros, particularly when it comes to organizing. It’s always good to
socialize with people who understand the issues. A big part of the
dissident project is community building and that can only happen with
in-person events. No matter what comes next, the people to come out the
other end in the best shape will be those who have the community
strength to handle whatever comes. When the crisis comes, we have to be
ready for it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
