---
title: "Of Two Minds"
date: "2019-06-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17722"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17722"
---

Probably the only thing that everyone agrees upon in modern America is
that the ideological divide has grown wider over the last few decades.
This divide becomes even starker when one redefines the Right to be the
center of dissident opinion, rather than conventional conservatism.
While the Buckley crowd runs faster after the radicals as they plunge
into the darkness, the dissidents are pretty much where the Buckley
Right was at the start of the cultural revolution in the 1960’s.

In fairness, the dissident right has moved further into the biological
realism camp in the last ten years or so. If we define Left and Right as
one pole being the blank slate and the other being biological reality,
the Right has now moved further toward the later pole, as the Left has
raced toward the other. This is explains why the great compromisers, the
Buckley Conservatives, have been pulled apart over the last two decades.
It is no longer possible to ignore these poles and no longer possible to
bridge them.

One thing that everyone outside the radical Left seems to accept is the
Left has become far more emotional and emotionally unstable over the
last few decades. The Left, of course, would dispute this, if they
bothered to address it, but even the most cowardly of Buckley
Conservatives agrees with this assessment. The Left is now defined by
its emotional outbursts and demands to shut down anyone that dares
question the tenets of their faith. The waves of censorship are a direct
result of these demands.

A good example of this institutional hysteria is the
<a href="http://www.unz.com/jthompson/superior-ideology/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">recent book</a> by Hindu
nationalist Angela Saini, which purports to show that biology is a
social construct. This is a woman, who for very personal reasons, has to
claim that race and ethnicity are figments of our imagination, but <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Geek-Nation-Indian-Science-Taking/dp/1444710168"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">writes books</a> celebrating
her people. Saini is a great example of the internally conflicted and
perpetually panicked Left. Her latest book is an effort to use cherry
picked science to anathematize the human sciences, in defense of
ideology.

The fevered tone, however, is self-defeating, as it further isolates the
blank slate crowd as a ghetto culture of radicals. When an algorithm can
<a
href="https://gizmodo.com/an-algorithm-generated-eerily-accurate-portraits-based-1835327568"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">create your face</a> just from
your voice, the notion that we are not what of biology dictates is
preposterous. When ancestry companies are relying upon cheek swabs to
tell people their race, ethnicity and the origin of their people, Angela
Saini sounds like a mad woman. This is what the Left appears to be
today. A collection of emotionally overwrought primitives.

The question is why the Left appears to be going mad. <a
href="http://www.staresattheworld.com/2019/06/political-left-losing-mind/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">David Aurini has a go at
it</a> looking at the Big Five Personality Traits. The radical Left is
high in Agreeableness and Neuroticism, while being very low in
Conscientiousness. As a result, they panic when they perceive any threat
and demand everyone get along – or else. They are also more intensely
on-line (Twitter, Facebook, YouTube), which tends to amplify their sense
of being surrounded by threats, thus elevating their level of panic.

Of course, another way to looking at this great divide is along sexual
lines. The Left is clearly more feminine today than at any time. The
people on the Left assailing biological reality are people like Angela
Saini, Amy Harmon and Cordelia Fine. They write books claiming biology
is a social construct. While there are some thirsty betas on the Left
nodding along with these sorts of women, the point of the spear in the
war against the human sciences is mainly populated with the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lampedo"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">daughters of Mars</a>.

Another aspect to this is the browning of the Left in America. The Left
is not only being feminized, it is being tribalized by people like
Angela Saini. She can never be occidental and is therefore condemned to
live outside the Western tradition. Because she can never be fully part
of the West, but is detached from her people’s past, she has to work
toward creating a new reality that can include the immigrant reality.
While in the past, Left and Right existed within Western identity, the
Left is slowly detaching from it.

This is probably the key reason the Left now feels so alien to even the
milquetoast members of the Buckley Right. People like David French
desperately try to keep pace with the Left as it rockets away from the
core of Western identity, but he remains tethered to Western tradition.
There’s simply no way to fit the shared reality of strangers, who
immigrated to the West, into the shared reality of the natives. Their
realities are too different and largely at odds. The Left is now defined
by its degree of separation.

Just as important, this new identity evolving on the Left is a negative
one. It is defined by its hostility to the core Western man. The
attempts by those in the remnant of the Buckley Right to find common
ground with the new Left is seen as an assault. Any effort to
incorporate the identity of the new comers into the Western tradition is
viewed as cultural appropriation, another way of saying an assault on
their identity. As a result, it appears the West is at war with itself
as the distance between the poles widen.

To some degree, the West has been at war with itself for a long time.
One side has always thought the importation of strangers was suicide.
The other side came to believe it was vital. There’s no bridging the gap
between these two opinions. It turns out that the former was always
correct. The new political divide, therefore, will be between those
alien infiltrators, and their native collaborators, hostile to the
heritage identity, and the natives, who remain in the core Western
tradition and identity.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">please contribute here</a>.

Or, You can send money to me at: P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD
21030-0432
