---
title: "How To Be A Bad Writer"
date: "2019-03-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-03-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16673"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16673"
---

The other day, someone asked me what makes for a good writer. We were
discussing Jonah Goldberg’s [new
venture](https://thehill.com/homenews/media/432167-national-reviews-goldberg-weekly-standards-hayes-to-launch-conservative-media)
and I pointed out that the big challenge they will face is finding
writers that are any good. It is not so much that their opinions are
banal or lack in authenticity. It is that the people writing for these
sites are boring. The whole space is full of people who should be
writing technical manuals. Almost everyone with writing chops has been
chased off by Conservative Inc.

The question though, is why are some writers more interesting than
others? Mark Steyn is not offering many unique insights, but he makes
general commentary about the political scene fun and interesting. He is
a great wordsmith. Steve Sailer is not a great wordsmith, but he often
makes great observations about the world. In other words, you can be an
interesting writer without being brilliant or a great wordsmith, but you
had better do something that gives the reader a payoff.

What often makes a writer good is that he avoids the things that all bad
writers seem to share. In this sense, “good” is not a state in itself,
but simply not being in the state we call “bad.” A great wordsmith is
further away from the state of bad writing than someone who is just an
average writer. That average writer can appear to be much better, by
offering keen insights and clever observations. The path to becoming a
good writer, therefore, starts with avoiding the things that define a
bad writer.

The most common trait of bad writers, it seems, is they write about
themselves. Unless you are an international man of mystery, you are not
that interesting. No one is. Bad writers think they are the most
interesting people they know. This is what made former President Obama
such a boring speaker. No matter the subject, his speech was going to be
a meditation on his thoughts and feelings about the subject. It became a
game of sorts to count how many times he referenced himself in a speech.

That is the hallmark of bad writing. Instead of focusing on the subject,
the writer focuses on himself, which suggests he does not know the
material. Even when relating an experience or conversation, the good
writer makes himself a secondary character in the story, not the focus.
A bad writer is always the hero of everything he writes, as if he is
trying to convince the reader of something about himself. Good writers
avoid this and focus on the subject of their writing.

Now, in fairness, there is a division between the sexes on this one.
Female writers *only* write about themselves. It is why autoethnography
is wildly popular with the Xirl science types on campus. They finally
have a complicated sounding name for what comes natural to them.
Presumably, female readers like reading this stuff, so there may be a
Xirl exception to this rule. The fairer sex is wired to understand the
world, particularly human relations, by observing the reactions of other
women to that person or thing.

Another common habit of the bad writer is to use five paragraphs when
one paragraph does the trick. One of the first rules they used to teach
children about writing is the rule of woman’s swimsuit. Good writing is
like a woman’s swimsuit, in that it is big enough to cover the important
parts, but small enough to make things interesting. This is a rule that
applies to all writing and one the bad writer violates. He will belabor
a point with unnecessary examples or unnecessary explication.

Bad writers are also prone to logical fallacies and misnomers. There is
really no excuse for this, as there are lists of common logical
fallacies and, of course, searchable on-line dictionaries in every
language. In casual writing, like blogging or internet commentary, this
is tolerable. When it shows up in a professional publication, it
suggests the writer and the editor are not good at their jobs. A
brilliantly worded comparison between two unrelated things is still a
false comparison. It suggests dishonesty on the part of the writer.

Certain words seem to be popular with bad writers. The word “dialectic”
has become an acid test for sloppy reasoning and bad writing. The word
“elide” is another one that is popular with bad writers for some reason.
“Epistemology” is another example, popular with the legacy conservative
writers. Bad writers seem to think cool sounding words or complex
grammar will make their ideas cleverer. Orwell’s second rule is “Never
use a long word where a short one will do.”

Finally, another common feature of bad writing is the disconnect between
the seriousness of subject and how the writer approaches the subject.
Bad writers, like Jonah Goldberg, write about serious topics, using pop
culture references and vaudeville jokes. On the other hand, feminists
write about petty nonsense as if the fate of the world hinges on their
opinion. The tone should always match the subject. Bad writers never
respect the subject they are addressing or their readers.

No doubt there are more complete and concise descriptions of bad writing
than this quick list of observations. The pedants reading this see all
writing as bad writing, as everything they read violates at least one
picayune rule they cherish. To normal people, though, good writing is
mostly the absence of bad writing and bad writing is the violation of
some basic rules of written communication. Therefore, if you want to be
a good writer, you should first avoid being a bad writer. That gets you
at least halfway home.
