---
title: "Buddha’s Children"
date: "2019-10-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - IQ
  - Progressives
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18818"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18818"
---

In his interesting
[post](https://pumpkinperson.com/2019/10/02/robert-mugabes-iq/) on
Robert Mugabe’s intelligence, the blogger calling himself Pumpkin Person
notes “One reason for thinking he’s in the upper end of this range is
that he was a Marxist, and left-wing politics are positively correlated
with IQ (at least if you control for race and income).” This does not
imply that all Marxists are highly intelligent. He is simply noting the
observation that left-wing politics of the radical sort highly correlate
with intelligence. Smart, educated people tend to be radicals.

This is an assertion most people have heard, if they have gone to
college, spent time on a college campus or consumed popular culture. The
assertion, that intelligence and radicalism are traveling partners, is a
part of the cultural bath in which every western man swims. It certainly
holds up when you look at the data. Whoever the Democrats nominate for
President, no matter how nutty and deranged, that person will win more
than 80% of the vote in every college town of America.

Now, normal people chafe at this assertion as the obvious implication is
that stupid people oppose radicalism. That’s certainly what the usual
suspects have always claimed, until biology became a taboo of late.
Anyone over the age of forty probably recalls being told something like
this in college. Of course, it was never just a passing observation. The
link between radicalism and intelligence was always supposed to put
critics on the defensive, as if they are inferiors.

The power of this can be seen in how Bill Buckley adopted the
over-the-top WASP intellectual style. The point of it was to inoculate
himself against the claim he was too dumb to understand what the Left
was claiming. George Will’s silly bowtie or Kevin Williamson’s quill pen
act are other recent examples. These affectations are intended to signal
the person is smart and therefore cannot be dismissed by the Left. It’s
Athena’s shield for the right-wing Perseus of left-wing politics.

It is certainly true that the data supports the claim. The voting
patterns of the educated bear this out. There are exceptions from time
to time, but generally speaking, the more credentials you have acquired,
the more likely you are to be on the Left. Since credentials are a
pretty good proxy for IQ, the original assertion holds. The smarter you
are, the more inclined you are toward radical politics. Or, if you
prefer, the smarter the person, the more open they are to radical
politics.

The problem with this observation is that it a logical fallacy.
Specifically, it is the fallacy of association. A famous example of this
fallacy is the observation that hardcore drug takers usually start with
marijuana, so pot is a gateway drug. All hardcore drug takers start life
drinking milk, but no rational person would say milk leads to smoking
crystal meth in adulthood. In other words, there is no causal link
established between IQ and radicalism in politics, no matter how much
the Left would wish it so.

Then there is the issue of how one defines left-wing politics. Every
single establishment right-winger would have been called a radical a
century ago. Two centuries ago the radicals in the West were people
advocating liberalism. All of these terms used to describe politics are
relative and their definitions shift over time. To pretend that Left and
Right are timeless categories is to reveal a total ignorance of history.
Even figuring out the relative poles in each era is not always possible,
as we see today.

There is another angle here that is more important to the topic. People
are social animals and we are a self-segregating species. People of like
mind will tend to congregate with one another out of instinct. This is
obvious to anyone who has been in a lunchroom of a large public school.
This is not just true of mature humans. Even babies are [attracted to
their
kind](https://nypost.com/2017/04/13/your-baby-is-a-little-bit-racist-science-says/).
This is why the college campus is so intolerant of free inquiry and
dissent. Over time, it has boiled off those with contrary opinions.

What this means is smart people are naturally going to end up in areas
around other smart people, like the college campus. The ornery and
disagreeable will usually be boiled off for all the natural reasons.
Most, however, will be as open to peer pressure as everyone else, maybe
more so. Most smart people tend to live sheltered lives, insulated from
the harsh reality of the human animal. If they are not left-wing when
they hit the college campus, they soon adapt to their new friends and
new culture.

This is such an obvious thing we have memes for it. The know-it-all
coed, back from her first year at college, is a standard type in
American culture. It’s a stock character in television and movies. Then
you have the modern meme of sweet little Suzy heading off to college and
coming back and blue-haired lesbian with a nose ring. This happens less
frequently with males, which probably explains why the college campus is
looking more like a hormonal coven these days than anything imagined by
Aristotle.

Another thing to consider is that 500 years ago, if one were to use
modern techniques to measure IQ and politics, the correlation would look
much different. Instead of the intelligent tending toward radicalism,
they would tend toward monasticism. The smart men of the age, if they
were not the first born, often ended up in the Church. That’s where
smart, curious men of the age went to be around other smart men. Maybe
they would end up in the court of their king, defending the natural
order.

Putting it all together, the reason radicalism and intelligence seem to
go hand-in-hand in this age is that radicalism is the secular religion
of this age. Just as the best and brightest of a prior age would have
been great theologians, the smart set of this age seek to advance the
secular religion of today. That means coming up with novel ways to
justify it in the face of observable reality. Of course, there’s always
profit in being the defender of the faith, so the Left attracts the most
ambitious too.

The reason we currently observe a correlation between left-wing politics
and intelligence is because left-wing politics is the secular religion
of this age. In America this has been true since Gettysburg. In Europe,
neo-liberalism has been the dominant faith since the end of the last
war. To be in the high IQ world means embracing the religion of the high
IQ world. If tomorrow, those people become Buddhists, the smart young
people of tomorrow will suddenly trend toward Buddhism.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
