---
title: "We Need A New Elite"
date: "2019-07-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18151"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18151"
---

Probably the worst thing Buckley conservatives did to their middle-class
white supporters is instill in them an unconditional love of rich
people. Conservatism accomplished very little, but one thing it did
amazingly well is hypnotize middle-class whites into instinctively and
ferociously defending the rights and privileges of the rich and
powerful. Even today, the most racially aware white still gets a little
angry when they hear an Ocasio-Cortez or Liz Warren rail against the
rich.

This conditioning, of course, was deliberate. The super-rich donors that
made Buckley conservatism possible saw the movement as a vehicle to
protect their interests from the Left during the Cold War. It’s not that
the American Left was ever a real threat to the rich and powerful, as
most of them came from rich and powerful families. Progressivism has
always been a rich man’s religion in America. It’s that the Left put a
lot of conditions on the rich, something we see today with the
Left-Corporate alliance.

With Buckley conservatism, the middle-class could be turned into an army
of defenders that put no conditions on the rich. By the 1980’s, the
anti-communism of Buckley conservatism was turning into the worship of
rich people. The movie <a href="https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0094291/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Wall Street</a> or the popular
TV show <a href="https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0083413/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Family Ties</a> are good
examples. There you have heroic figures, who are pure materialists, with
no sense of duty to their fellow man. Getting rich, by any means
necessary, was a social good in itself.

This conception of conservatism is thoroughly at odds with any past
conceptions of conservatism. In fact, there was never anything
conservative about Buckley conservatism. From Joseph de Maistre to
Russel Kirk, conservatism accepted that every society has a ruling
elite. In order for a society to function, that elite must be explicit
and indebted to the welfare of the society over which they rule.
Conservatism always started with an understanding of duties and
obligations.

Whatever Buckley may have said or written in his younger days, by the
time the conservative movement reached it maturity, it was something
that would have been unrecognizable to a historic conservative. It was a
celebration of materialism and individualism that placed no obligations
on the elite. Instead, it divorced the rich and powerful from their
duties, turning their indifference into a virtue. That virtue has now
curdled into a contempt not seen since the French Revolution.

To this day, the few intellectual hobos shuffling around the ruins of
Buckley conservatism still try to peddle this lie. They wave around the
Medusa head, painted up as Ocasio-Cortez, in an effort to scare their
dwindling ranks into thinking socialism is their great enemy. That only
a suicidal defense of those terribly vulnerable billionaires will
prevent the Left from raising their taxes. It is a revolting display of
toadyism that makes a decent man ball his fist and have dark thoughts.

Much of what ails the American Empire today is rooted in this terrible
trick played upon the white middle-class of America. Once the Cold War
ended, vast resources used to fight the communists could have been
turned toward addressing long ignored problems in the homeland. Instead,
the white middle-class went on a long orgy of pointless consumption,
while a new class of super-rich oligarchs rose up, unconstrained by any
obligation to the society that spawned them.

The truth is, if America had better rich people, rich people who felt a
sense of duty to their fellow citizens, there would be no dissident
right. Even putting aside race realism, if the rich just embraced an
immigration and economic policy that was explicitly good for Americans,
there would be no Donald Trump. The political center of America would be
to the Right of the current GOP. The debates would be about how best to
manage trade with the world and how best to guard the border.

Instead, we have political parties that despise their own voters,
financed by billionaires, who despise the American people. Of course,
this culture of contempt is not just an American phenomenon. It has
spread throughout the empire, infecting the rich and powerful of the
West. <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/jul/18/ruins-notre-dame-billionaires-french-philanthropy"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> about the
billionaires of France reneging on their commitment to rebuild Notre
Dame is a perfect example. These people carry on like spoiled brats,
living in the moment, indifferent to everyone.

In a business, bankruptcy is when the current arrangements are no longer
sustainable, so the enterprise is either liquidated or reconstructed.
That requires terminating current management, either to be replaced with
better people, who will bring the firm back to solvency or so the firm
can be dissolved. In a nation, revolution is similar, in that current
elites need to be eliminated so a new set of elites can retool the
country and bring it back to health. Bankruptcy and revolution are about
new beginnings.

That’s where things are in the West, but America in particular. The
current elites are rotten to the core. They are irredeemable. There’s no
talking them out of their corruption or appealing to their humanity, at
least not until they are on the gallows. These are people who now define
themselves in opposition to that which makes nations possible and makes
a people possible. For the people of the West to regain their sense of
self, to make countries into homelands again, it means replacing the
current elites.

*The people can not be all, & always, well informed. the part which is
wrong will be discontented in proportion to the importance of the facts
they misconceive. if they remain quiet under such misconceptions it is a
lethargy, the forerunner of death to the public liberty. we have had 13.
states independant 11. years. there has been one rebellion. that comes
to one rebellion in a century & a half for each state. what country
before ever existed a century & half without a rebellion? & what country
can preserve it’s liberties if their rulers are not warned from time to
time that their people preserve the spirit of resistance? let them take
arms. the remedy is to set them right as to facts, pardon & pacify them.
what signify a few lives lost in a century or two? the tree of liberty
must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots &
tyrants. it is it’s natural manure.*

–Thomas Jefferson, Paris 1787

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
