---
title: "We Ban Books Here"
date: "2019-03-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-03-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16678"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16678"
---

Way back in the old days, the Left used to accuse conservatives of being
against free speech and open debate. They would say the Right was in
favor of burning books and heresy laws. When conservatives rose to power
in the 1980’s, it was time for them to “own the libs” by pointing out
that the Soviets banned books, threw dissidents into gulags, and banned
speech critical of the state. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn became a celebrity
among conservatives, as an example of how the communists suppressed
speech.

Regardless of which side was making the case, the basic assumption was
that authoritarian government suppressed speech, banned books, and threw
political dissidents into prison. Democratic governments, on the other
hand, permitted a marketplace of ideas, encouraged debate, and protected
political dissidents. A popular thing to say on the Left was “I may not
agree with what you say, but I’ll give my life to defend your right to
say it.” Even right-wingers would say it on occasion.

That was a long time ago. Today, no one in the political class talks
about free speech or the marketplace of ideas. Instead, they rant and
rave about hate speech. The “artsy” types are considered rebels because
they repeat verbatim from the official catechism and demand greater
restrictions on speech. It is truly bizarre when you step back and look
at what is happening in the context of the last few decades. The man
from 1985, transported to this age, would assume some lunacy has
suddenly gripped everyone.

Of course, the same time traveler would be puzzled as to how it was
possible for a handful of companies to have seized control of the public
space. That is the part no one could imagine thirty years ago. In 1985,
a bookstore refusing to sell a book was no big deal, because there were
plenty of bookstores that would sell it. The FCC regulated television
and radio, but only for smut. The notion of corporations controlling the
public space and un-personing dissidents was beyond fantasy in 1985.

Just think about that for a second. The people in charge will go to the
mat to defend pornography freely available on-line, but scream bloody
murder if Facebook lets someone talk about biology on their platform.
Scientists are losing their careers, while pornographers are celebrated.
It is close to a 180-degree change from thirty years ago. In 1985,
retailers were still keeping smut in the back room, away from the
general public. Video rental places had a secret room for porn. Today,
porn is so ubiquitous no one notices.

That is the truly bizarre thing about this time, relative to not so long
ago. The man in 1985 worried about the IRS and maybe the FBI abusing
their power. The only worry about corporations abusing their power was
the environmental stuff or maybe screwing their employees in some way.
Today, you have much more to fear from the banks and tech giants than
the government. If the state becomes aware of you, so what? If Google
suddenly takes an interest in you, it might be time to go into hiding.

What makes this age even stranger is that it just sort of happened. In
fact, it happened so quickly, most people have yet to upgrade their
thinking. Conservatives think they are fighting for liberty and
opportunity by defending global corporations. Libertarians are literally
writing [love
letters](https://www.amazon.com/Big-Business-Letter-American-Anti-Hero/dp/1250110548)
to global business. Progressives continue to think of themselves as the
defenders of the middle-class, despite making war on it. Antifa, an
anarchist operation, is entirely funded by billionaires and corporate
donors.

Again, that time traveler would be completely baffled by the uniformity
of opinion among these corporate HR departments that now control
society. In his time, there was variety of opinion on the Left. In fact,
the main Left used to complain about its fringe screwing things up for
them by making crazy demands. The Right was also quarrelsome, with
paleos, neos and various libertarians fighting with one another. Today,
conservative means lectures on racism and Israel and liberal means more
lectures on racism and trannies.

What would really baffle our time traveler is the fact that we ban books
now. In America, that has always been the hallmark of authoritarianism
and intolerance. It was always the thing that no free person could
tolerate. It is not so much the books themselves, but the motivation
behind it. The person who wanted to ban books wanted to control the most
private of private spaces, the mind. Today, the idea of having any
privacy, even private thoughts, is considered immoral by the people in
American HR.

The scary part of this age is that the book burning is the least odious
thing being normalized by American HR. Banks are now cancelling
accounts, because they have deemed the client to be in violation of
their HR polices. Visa and MasterCard are making private war on the gun
industry. How long before someone like Jared Taylor finds he cannot get
a credit card or bank account? How long before his bank calls his
mortgage or his insurance company cancels his policy, because he is a
blasphemer?

That was always the scary part of the Soviet Union. The book banning and
speech laws were easy to mock. You could not mock the idea of men being
sent to camps or facing internal exile. Imagine being in a state where
your friends and family fear being associated with you, because the
state has declared you an enemy. Now, imagine losing your phone service
because someone working in the Bangalore office of Apple does not like
your browsing habits. Imagine American HR becoming aware of you.

Probably the strangest thing for our time traveler would be the reality
that people and ideas he considered on his side would now suddenly be
enemies. To be a defender of a free society means sounding like a
Bolshevik, with regards to big business. To oppose tyranny now means
demanding the government crackdown on the excesses of the corporate HR
department. In order to defend your life and your posterity means
secretly hoping for an American Pinochet to use the state to crush the
enemies of the West.
