---
title: "A Rambling Post About Sportsball"
date: "2019-02-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - IQ
  - Sports
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16551"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16551"
---

If you have ever followed sportsball, the one thing you have surely
noticed is that some franchises never win, while others win a lot. In
America, the New York Yankees are the example of perennial winners. In
English soccer, Manchester United is the club that is the example of
consistent excellence. The opposite is true as well. In America, the
organization best known for futility is the Cleveland Browns. It is not
just that they never win anything. They find hilarious ways to lose and
embarrass themselves.

The question is why? In the case of baseball, market size has always
been assumed to be the main driver. With unlimited budgets for payroll
and player development, the teams with deep pockets could dominate. The
Yankees operate in New York. The Dodgers are in Los Angeles. Over the
years, the correlation between winning and market size has been strong
enough for most people to assume that is the reason. Of course, the Mets
and Cubs stand out as stark exceptions, so there is more to it.

In other sports, like English soccer, the market share answer does not
apply. Manchester is the thirst largest metropolitan area, behind
Birmingham and London, but it is a fifth the size of London and much
poorer. The dominance of Manchester is a lot like the success of the
Green Bay Packers in American football. Not quite to that extreme, but
Man U has had much more success than the Packers. While having a big
market helps in all sports, the rules and some other factors often
neutralize the advantages.

One area where this “something” else is easier to notice is in how teams
hire their front office people. The reason the Cleveland Browns, for
example, lose all the time is they hire stupid people to run their club.
The New England Patriots, in contrast, hired a cerebral coach, paid him
well and staffed their front office with smart people. They also make
sure the culture of the organizations rewards the smart and punishes the
stupid. When these people leave for better jobs, they often fail in
their new organizations.

While it seems obvious, the reason franchises have sustained success, or
failure is due mostly to their organizational IQ. This is most obvious
in baseball. The Oakland A’s are credited with being the first team to
employ statistics in player evaluation. Moneyball, as it is called,
seeks to find the best value in the market for talent, but also the most
useful players in the market. The stat-geeks have re-evaluated the stats
in baseball and created new metrics to measure a player’s contribution
to winning games.

What the Oakland A’s learned is they could get players that were 90% as
good as the big stars, for 30% of the investment. That is a bit of an
exaggeration, but it is a useful way of thinking of it. They understood
that a player who walks a lot is more valuable than a guy who strikes
out a lot but also hits for a high average. The former is on-base more
often, so he contributes more runs than the latter. Hitting home runs is
a good way to get a big contract and sell tickets, but getting on base
is what counts most.

Now, all of the big clubs have armies of stat-geeks doing the moneyball
thing. The Boston Red Sox have the godfather of stat geeks, Bill James,
on their payroll. The use of stats has become so pervasive, it is
changing the game. Managers no longer make decisions during games.
Instead, they consult probability charts and select from the options the
front office created before the game. It is an odd form of computer
chess. Instead of humans controlling the robot pieces, it is the robots
controlling the human pieces.

The fact is, winning is about avoiding error. Since the Greeks this has
been understood, so why is this not a universal part of all sport? The
owner of the Cleveland Browns is probably a smart guy. He is rich enough
to own a sportsball team, so he may not be a genius, but he is pretty
smart. Why does he not hire a team of behavior scientists to study
winning and create personality models for the various jobs within the
organization? He could hire people to model how the Patriots run their
organization.

It does not have to be a sci-fi version of this stuff to work. The team
of analysts could come up with the five facts common to all failed
coaches in the Browns organization and then compare that to the least
successful coaches in the game. Odds are, they will find some
commonalities. Knowing what does not work, they could simply avoid
hiring coaches with any of those qualities. That would not guarantee
success, but maybe it eliminates embarrassing, catastrophic failure.
Better is better.

Sports organizations are systems, so the tools used in system analysis
should apply to sports teams, corporations, political movements and so
forth. American business employs continuous improvement techniques to
fine tune daily operations. Some are more committed than others and some
things work better than others, but fixing small things tends to have
the greatest impact on performance. This is true in most systems. Fixing
a simple error in a line of code can greatly increase system
performance.

Despite this well-known reality, human organizations are the least
likely to embrace empirical techniques. Politics is the most obvious. If
the parties simply require an IQ test for party membership, they would
save themselves a lot of trouble. Sports franchises tinker around with
this stuff, but they have never embraced it. Even big corporations seem
to drift from a focus on incremental improvement in various types of
magic. Google is now a cult of sorts, which is how they make blunders
like [this
one](https://www.businessinsider.com/nest-microphone-was-never-supposed-to-be-a-secret-2019-2).

The point of this post, if there is one, is that there is something that
prevents otherwise smart people, like sportsball owners, from using well
known techniques to improve their organizations. The result is a
repetition of unforced errors. Sportsball owners are hyper-competitive,
yet they are often allergic to considering concepts and tactics that
work in other organizations. It is only after an innovator proves it can
work that we see the rest jump on board and start aping what worked for
them.

An even stranger thing about sportsball teams is that this institutional
blundering attracts owners prone to the same sort of blundering. These
bad franchises come up for sale and the new owners turn out to be as
accident-prone as the previous ones. In fact, whole cities seem to
attract losers in this area. Again, Cleveland is a great example. All of
their sportsball teams are terrible and the owners are some of the worst
in sport. Maybe there really is something in the water there that causes
this.

Anyway, it is something reformers and rebels should probably consider
when plotting how to attack the Death Star of modern culture. Maybe that
silly plot device from Star Wars has a grain of truth to it. The bad
guys left the back door to the Death Star open, because in the end, they
were the Cleveland Browns of space villains. Perhaps all villains leave
a window open at some point. Maybe size makes organizations stupid and
then exploitable to those with subversion on their mind.
