---
title: "Beyond Archeofuturism"
date: "2019-04-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17162"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17162"
---

Social cycle theory argues that stages of civilization and history
generally repeat themselves in cycles. The most famous explanation of
this is Oswald Spengler’s The Decline of the West, where he compared
human civilization to an organism. There is the birth phase where
society comes into being. An adult phase where is fully formed and
reaches its potential and then the decline of old age and eventually
death. Another way of stating it is that human civilization has seasons,
spring through winter.

This way of thinking about the West has been popular with various
right-wing movements ever since, as it generally fits the more realistic
worldview of the Right. The Left, in contrast, has always embraced the
idea that human civilization evolves toward some idealized point of
existence. Progressives chose their label, because they are not only in
favor of progress, but they believe it is inevitable. They are on the
right side of history, because unlike their enemies, they are not
standing in the way of progress.

The argument for Spengler has a lot of support in our history books, as
there are plenty of civilizations that were born, lived and then died.
If human history naturally progressed to some ideal form of existence,
it would seem that the middle ages were a detour, which means there
could be other detours. Alternatively, Africa made no meaningful
progress until Europeans arrived and handed them the tools of modernity.
Even so, the magic of historical progress does not appear to be working
its magic on the Africans.

Closer to home, it is obvious that the West has hit some sort of wall,
when it comes to inventiveness in the social sphere. Regarding political
organization, not much has happened since widespread democracy was
embraced a century ago. It has become more absurd and corrupt, but that
hardly qualifies as progress. Culturally, the West has not produced much
of anything worth commenting upon, other than popular culture, which
also seems to have stalled. Pop culture today is reboots and repeats of
the past.

At a more granular level, this is obvious in the political sphere. Take
a look at the Democrats running for president. Bernie Sanders is a sort
of weird nostalgia tour for Baby Boomer lefties and their spiritual
soulmates in the younger generations. Listen to him speak and he barely
makes any sense. In fact, all of them rely on emotive gibberish and
their mostly concocted back stories. The gay mayor a gay who speaks in
riddles. The mixed senator is Obama with a vagina. Warren is an angry
old hen.

Take a step back and the Democrat Party is no longer a political party
in the traditional sense of the concept. It has no agenda, other than a
hatred of white people, but even that hatred has no point, beyond
keeping the non-whites angry. The GOP had been a pointless collection of
castoffs for decades until Trump came along, but even there, the MAGA
stuff is just a weird echo of the Reagan years. If Sanders is a
nostalgia candidate for lefty boomers, Trump is a nostalgia tour for
aging Reaganites.

The near total lack of political innovation is quite startling when you
read <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/the-secret-plan-to-revive-the-american-right/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">something like this</a>, which
was posted at American Conservative. The general thrust of the article
is the Right needs a new Frank Meyer, who helped turn the American Right
into a fusion of social conservatism, libertarian economics and hawkish
anti-communism. The post reads like the pitch for rebooting an old movie
franchise. Instead of fighting the Soviets, the new Conservative Man
will start a Cold War with China and promise to cut the debt.

It is not just the mainstream political ideologies that are staggering
around in the darkness of the past, searching for a reason to exist. The
alt-right embracing fascist iconography and larping as Nazis was as much
about a lack of imagination as breaking taboos. They could not think of
a way forward, so they were hoping for a do-over. This surge in what is
called white identity politics is mostly just a rediscovery of old ideas
that lived and died a century ago. There are a lot of antiquarians in
identity politics.

Francis Fukuyama famously declared the end of history, as if the West
had finally reached the Promised Land. Liberal democracy triumphed over
communism. He has since backed off on that a bit, but this is the end of
a long super-cycle that started in the late middle ages and peaked in
the Industrial Revolution. There really has not been an innovative
political idea since the beginning of the last century. The expansion of
liberal democracy has brought with it weird cults and heresies, but
those are decoration, not innovation.

The view from the Right, properly understood, is to look at this and see
the winter of Western civilization. The barbarian hordes are pouring
over the border. It’s not that the West is incapable of defending
itself. It’s that it lacks the youthful energy to do it. Like an old man
sitting in his rocker, the Occident is simply too burdened by time to
get up and defend, much less build, his civilization. In other words, we
are in the same place as Rome entering the final century of the Western
Roman Empire.

Another way of viewing this, however, is to be a bit less grandiose and
see the West in a transition period. The period from the French
Revolution through the Second World War was driven by the technological
and economic changes that swept the West. The old political order, which
was rooted in the feudal economics of the middle ages, slowly and often
violently gave way to a new political order rooted in capital and
industry. The feudal relationship does not make a lot of sense when
capital is king.

Perhaps this period we are in is a transition from the industrial order
to something that better fits the technological age. One reason national
governments are in such shabby condition is they have lost one main
reason to exist. People in Europe are no longer in competition for
resources. Everyone in the West has extra of all the things that matter
and extra of most of the luxury items. Organized competition for stuff
is no longer a salient part of political life. Germany is not going to
be invading Poland to get more farm land.

Put another way, the path forward may be exactly that, allowing the past
to fade into the darkness of history, while looking for a new
organizational model that fits the needs of technological,
post-industrial and post-scarcity societies. A political philosophy that
has the attributes of the block chain, rather than the corporation, is
the future for a technological society. Instead of decorating old ideas
with new trimmings, it will be the past decorating new a political
philosophy, purpose built for the current age.
