---
title: "Hanging Alone"
date: "2019-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16461"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16461"
---

The great social blogger Heartiste did [a
post](https://heartiste.wordpress.com/2019/02/04/the-four-kinds-of-male-loneliness/)
a week or so ago on the four types of loneliness. It was a take-off on a
Twitter exchange on the subject. The original Twitter exchange
listed loneliness for a woman, loneliness for brotherhood and loneliness
for a lord, as in God, as the three forms of male loneliness. Heartiste
adds a fourth, which he calls the loneliness a man feels for the man he
has yet to become. This form of loneliness seems to be correlated to the
distance one is from their true self.

One interesting thing about this list is it tracks closely with John
Derbyshire’s description of the [normal modes of
thought](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/7275977-the-ordinary-modes-of-human-thinking-are-magical-religious-social).
There is no form of loneliness that corresponds with the desire for
revenge, but perhaps personal thought could be broadened to include more
than revenge fantasies. If so, then it works out well. The list from the
Heartiste post then corresponds to personal, social, religious, and
magical thinking. The implication of that correspondence is that
loneliness, or fear of it, is an integral part of man.

Some would argue that the keystone to male loneliness is the personal. A
man who gets married and has a family, will never be alone. He will
never be forgotten, because some of him will carry on in his children.
This raises his social standing and makes for more meaningful
relationships with his fellow men. The miracle of family life inevitably
leads to a fuller, richer spiritual life. That seems plausible, except
that divorces rates and the number of unmarried males suggests a
different causal relationship.

Of course, the more spiritually minded would start with the need to have
a relationship with the universe. Maybe this is in the form of some
esoteric spirituality, or the more concrete relationship man finds in
Christianity. This connection to the universe, the relationship to God,
provides the foundation for personal relationships, brotherhood, and
fulfillment of potential. As with personal loneliness, the facts on the
ground suggest this is not the correct causal relationship. The pews are
empty for a reason.

Heartiste, it appears, makes his first mover the loneliness a man feels
for the man he has yet to become. He describes this as “Thwarted
passion, a decision to avoid a risky venture, procrastination…these
things will deprive a man of the ideal he always strives toward, and in
the depths of that deprivation he will feel lonely for the company, and
the mentorship, of his idealized self.” If you are all the man you
imagine yourself to be, you will have all the women you want, all the
brotherhood you want and the love of the universe.

The benefit of thinking of it this way is that it makes the fulfillment
of your true self as the glue that binds the other forms of thought to
one another as co-equals. There is a romantic quality, where this
fulfillment of the true self completes a man in a perfection of the
personal, spiritual, and social. The flaw though, is that a homicidal
sociopath reaching his full potential is a very different thing than
what Heartiste has in mind. The ring cycle can just as easily end in
horror as a romantic sense of fulfillment.

The final combination starts with brotherhood. The man who has
established fulfilling relationships with other men, will inevitably
share the spiritual life of his peers. He will believe what they believe
and feel that the universe cares for him, as it cares for his brothers.
An assumption here is that the only way for a man to find brotherhood is
if he has completed himself in the personal domain by finding a woman.
This golden triangle, so to speak, is what unchains a man to reach his
full potential as a man.

Up until recently, western society was held together, to a great degree,
by the voluntary associations we call brotherhood. It may have been
organizations for former soldiers, fraternal organization or social
clubs organized around a particularly male activity, like hunting or
sporting. What we now think of as male loneliness and the degradation of
male roles, corresponds with the collapse of brotherhood. The war on
sexism was always a war on brotherhood, which in turn was a war on the
bones of society.

The argument against this is that brotherhood does not necessarily free
a man to reach his potential as a man. Anyone who has been in the
service or played team sports knows that talent is often sacrificed for
the goals of the group. Organizations always take on a life of their
own, putting the group ahead of its constituents. At the same time,
organizations tend to devolve into politics, resulting in factionalism,
which inevitably reduces the effectiveness of the group and the
individuals within the group.

That is not brotherhood though. That is simply organization, which is
different from brotherhood. In fact, in order to forge the bonds of
brotherhood a man has to voluntarily sacrifice something of his self. It
is this sacrifice, often a sacrifice of blood and sweat, life and labor,
that makes brotherhood possible. The man who willingly gives his life
for his brothers, so his brothers may live, is a man making the ultimate
sacrifice. There is a reason such men are held in the highest honor by
his brothers.

Of course, this assertion suggests a universal. In order to have
personal, spiritual, and social fulfillment, man must first find
brotherhood. It is the pivot point upon which the balance of a man’s
life rests. The collapse of the male domain in western societies, has
then brought down with it the personal, the spiritual and the social. In
order to avoid hanging alone, in the loneliness of modern despair, men
will need to rebuild the structures that allow for brotherhood and most
important, make the sacrifice it demands.
