---
title: "Public-Private Propaganda"
date: "2019-02-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16630"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16630"
---

Propaganda works on the assumption that most people yield to the
authority of the state and most people yield to the opinions of their
fellow subjects. Propaganda does not have to convince everyone or even a
majority of everyone. It just has to work on that third that are ready
and willing to believe. That group will be enthusiastic enough to
convince the third that tends to follow the strong horse, even when in
doubt. The third prone to skepticism is then outnumbered and less
inclined to speak up.

In the modern age, liberal democracies are not going to have ministries
of truth or official propagandists. That was the flaw of various forms
of communism. They eliminated the private sphere entirely, so even the
official religion of communism could not circulate freely among the
people. The commies could not rely on the “right” position to spring
forth on its own and circulate among the people, because the mechanisms
for birthing it and spreading it were destroyed, along with the rest of
the private property.

Joseph de Maistre observed that “false opinions are like false money,
struck first of all by guilty men and thereafter circulated by honest
people who perpetuate the crime without knowing what they are doing.”
The best propaganda is therefore struck by the believers in the private
realm and circulated by honest people, who have their desire for truth
perverted into a vehicle for spreading falsehoods. [This
story](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-6211153/The-rise-female-infidelity.html)
from last fall in the Daily Mail is a great example of how propaganda
spreads in a liberal democracy.

The claim, for those uninterested in reading the story, is that women
are becoming less faithful in their relationships. The story is based on
a book by someone calling herself Wednesday Martin. Her claim, based on
her *qualitative* research into the subject, is that modern women are
more adulterous than in the past. For those unfamiliar with Xirl
science, that is a nice way of saying she sat around local coffee shops,
talking to hens about their sex lives. There is no data in the book or
the story.

Given the demographic of the people featured in the story, this book is
a bodice ripper of sorts for the middle-aged white women. The standard
model for the romance novel is the dashing stranger with money, they
always have money and status, ravishing the heroine, in some exotic
location or time period. The new model is to have “real life” women talk
about their fantasies. In this case, it is middle-aged hens talking
about their steamy affair with Roger from accounting, while her husband
was on a business trip.

Of course, a good chunk of females wants to believe this stuff. Those
romance novels do not fly off the shelves by accident. The soft-core
porn book Fifty Shades of Grey sold 125 million copies and spawned a
series of movies. It has been known since the ancients that women fall
for the steamy romance, because women like to be flattered. The romance
novel allows the reader to think she too could be caught up in a great
adventure, the object of the desire, fought over by exciting high-status
males.

In our age, where the people in charge want women to work in the fields
and refuse to have children with white men, promoting the idea of female
adultery is useful. It is not that they want women to be adulterous. It
is that they like the idea to gain currency, because it confirms the
themes of feminism. It also anathematizes the sensibilities of normal
women who are happy to be wives and mothers. The fact that it sells
books and movies is a bonus, as it encourages even more of it from other
corners.

Now, the fact is there is no data suggesting women are more adulterous
today than at any time in history. In fact, the data we have reveals
that women were *less* adulterous in the past than previously believed.
Science can now use DNA to figure out if famous person X was in fact the
child of his famous father. It is one of the unexpected byproducts of
ancient DNA studies. Similarly, what is being revealed by the
proliferation of ancestry services is that the number of births outside
of the marriage is quite low.

The natural counter to this observation is that modern birth control is
probably obscuring this alleged growth in female infidelity. That
argument is from another bit of propaganda used to peddle birth control.
In the West, the promotion of birth control was based on the argument
that ignorance results in unwanted pregnancy, so the solution is to put
this into the children’s school curriculum. The claim is absurd. People
have always known how babies are made and how to avoid making them. Look
up Silphium, if you are curious.

Regardless, this story about the alleged rise in female infidelity shows
how the privatization of propaganda is vastly more effective than what
you see from authoritarian regimes. The people in charge merely have to
favor certain information over others and the media bullhorns magnify
these preferences. For example, on Amazon you can buy The
Unabomber’s Manifesto, but you cannot buy Greg Johnson’s [The White
Nationalist
Manifesto](https://www.counter-currents.com/2019/02/amazon-com-bans-the-white-nationalist-manifesto/).
The people in charge are indifferent to the former, but not the latter.

The volunteer army of box wine aunties that stalks social media looking
for blasphemers is another example. You will note that the overwhelming
majority of left-wing agitators on-line are unattached females looking
for attention. The propaganda machine has weaponized unattached females,
turning them into enforcers of the orthodoxy. Once again, the heavy
lifting is not done at the agency or propaganda. It is done in corporate
boardrooms. The Soviets never had such an effective and dedicated army
of spies.

This system that rewards the counterfeiters of truth and punishes the
skeptics is not something created by design. It is a natural byproduct
of liberal democracy. When the only authority is the general will, the
fifty percent plus one, controlling public opinion became the point of
everything. Once one ideological camp gains an edge, they leverage that
by supporting their fellow ideologues and punishing their opponents. It
is why institutions move from a normal status into a deranged one, like
we see with the Boy Scouts.

It is also why the ratio of lies to truth in the public sphere seems to
be increasing geometrically. The quantity of truth in the world is
always fixed. The math of existence is the denominator of life. The
numerator, however, is the falsehoods. Systems like communism and
liberal democracy require greater amounts of propaganda in order to
survive, so before long the numerator dwarfs the denominator. It is why
we live in a sea of fake news and nonsense studies about human behavior,
written by morons.
