---
title: "Zero Marginal Culture"
date: "2019-02-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16419"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16419"
---

A long running gag in popular culture is one where the adults complain
about the fads popular with the younger generation. Adults supposedly
have been complaining about the kids’ music since the birth of pop
culture in the 20th century. The same is true of clothing styles and
haircuts. Of course, part of that is the marketing of popular culture.
The people peddling this stuff try to feed on the normal youthful
rebellion, so an ideal result, if you are in the business, is for the
adults to really hate it. Then the kids will love it.

The assumption underlying this gag is that there is no objective
difference in quality between pop culture trends. The perceived quality
is relative. From the perspective of a teenager, the new thing is useful
because it translates to status within their peer group or allows them
access to a desirable youth subculture. For adults, these new trends
have no social value. There may be some small value in hating it, but
since all adults are tuned to not like teenage fads, the value in not
liking it is minimal.

The makers of pop culture made up for this lack of qualitative
difference in fads by maintaining a monopoly on the supply. Hollywood
was controlled by a small clique from the start and remained a family
business of sorts until recently. Music was similarly controlled by a
relatively small number of record companies. Read the book [The Wrecking
Crew](https://www.amazon.com/Wrecking-Crew-Beach-Boys/dp/B00UHJ7F4S) and
you see how this used to work. This bottleneck on the supply side
allowed the makers to keep down costs and therefore maintain a profit
margin.

Technology has made it much more difficult for the people controlling
the supply side to maintain this bottleneck. That is mostly because
technology has lowered the barrier to entry into pop culture. A great
example of this happening in front of our eyes. Talk radio became a
thing in the 1980’s. Conservative Inc. controlled middlebrow
conservative opinion by controlling the radio networks. If you wanted to
talk politics on the right, you had to play ball with the people
controlling the talk radio industry.

Today, some of the most influential voices on the right are podcasters
and live streamers. If you are under the age of fifty, you are probably
close to abandoning the old radio model entirely, maybe listening to
some of the old guys on-line. The audience for Rush Limbaugh is half of
its peak now. Most talkers have seen their audience shrink and they are
now seeing competition from below. People like Stephan Molyneux can
produce high quality, professional content, from his home and reach a
broad audience on-line.

The thing is supply does not create demand. Just because you can now
produce your own music from a home studio, it does not mean that you
become a pop star. That old assumption about there being no qualitative
difference in trends works in the macro sense, but talent still counts.
The fact that [young
people](https://metro.co.uk/2019/02/07/millennials-prefer-music-20th-century-golden-age-pop-today-research-reveals-8462993/)
may prefer pop music from their grandparent’s generation suggests there
is a qualitative difference in this area. To these young ears, that
music is better, so they prefer it over what the style makers produce.

Alternatively, another way of looking at this phenomenon is that like
the consumer electronics business, pop music is now fully commoditized.
There is little or no value added to the music from the producers and
creators, so the only thing that matters in the music market is price.
Since streaming is the platform of the future, producing new music makes
less sense, when there is this vast library of existing music. The kids
have not heard these old songs, so selling them the old stuff is
possible.

Another aspect to this is the cultural one. Pop music had a peak in the
1970’s and has been in [decline ever
since](https://www.businessinsider.com/chart-of-the-day-recorded-music-revenue-per-capita-2011-2?r=US&IR=T).
This tracks with the overall decline in the culture. This turns up in
per capita music consumption. The aberration was the introduction of the
CD, which had everyone re-buying their catalog of music. Otherwise,
Americans have listening to less music than fifty years ago. Young
people may simply prefer that which was created in peak America over
that which is produced in post-America.

Putting aside the cultural angle, which is not unimportant, the economic
issue raised by trends in popular culture is how does a market economy
work when everything is a commodity? If technology makes it impossible
to create bottlenecks and control artificial monopolies on supply, how
can concepts like entrepreneurship and market competition still exist?
After all, business is about [creating scarcity and exploiting
it](https://slatestarcodex.com/2019/01/31/book-review-zero-to-one/).
What happens when the Peter Theil model is no longer possible?

It sounds fanciful, and maybe it is, but it is worth thinking about, as
the people who rule over us are thinking about it. The author of [this
book](https://www.amazon.com/Zero-Marginal-Cost-Society-Collaborative/dp/1137278463/)
on the subject is an adviser to the European Union and is read by the
western political elite. They are not worried about a world of zero
marginal cost. They want to create it. The world of zero marginal cost
is also a world of zero marginal culture. More precisely, it is
post-culture world, in which things like pop music are simply things
supplied by the system on-demand.
