---
title: "The Conquered Man"
date: "2019-01-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16214"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16214"
---

Way back in the mists of time, alt-right pranksters on social media came
up with the term “cuckservative”, which is a combination of cuckold and
conservative. They started calling the National Review type of
conservatives this on Twitter and Facebook. It was one of those amusing
episodes that revealed the gap between the fantasy world in which
conservative writers live and the real world outside. None of them
initially got the joke or they assumed it did not apply to them, so it
made for a week of good gags.

The reason the term was so effective is that it crystallized the reality
of the modern conservative intellectual. They are toadies of the Left.
Just as a cuckold is a man, who is so completely dominated by his woman
that he allows her to carry on with other men, the conservative
intellectual is thoroughly dominated by the Left. So much so he
willingly submits himself to humiliation on cable chat shows. Worse yet,
like the cuckold, the modern conservative endorses and defends the
relationship.

What made the gag even more effective is that once these conservative
opinion makers were informed of what it meant, we got the old familiar
sneer from them. This is where they crinkle up their noses like they
caught wind of a bad odor and pretend they are offended by the mere
presence of the people mocking them. David French was the most
hilarious, as he was one of the last to figure it out. When he did, he
went full-on [Daffy Duck](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PwpD3USKEKw).
The poster child for cuckservatism managed to agree and amplify the
insult.

The worthlessness of conservatism, the professional variety at least, is
one of the first steps people make along the way toward the dissident
right. Today, someone who listens to Ben Shapiro is someone you know is
trapped in a forgotten age. They may as well be wearing denim leisure
suits and listening to disco. As far as a political movement, it was
always a sham, but as a cultural force it at least served as a rallying
point. Today, to be a conservative is to be, at best, the house slave
who relishes his servitude.

The thing about the cuck label is it implies there is a possibility for
the cuck to wake up from his degraded condition and reclaim himself. He
literally stops being a cuckservative, as soon as he lifts his eyes and
stops bowing and scraping to the Left. There are, after all, a lot of
former cucks in the alt-right. There are lots of former conservatives in
the dissident right. These are people who saw where they were headed,
gathered themselves, and made the trip to this side of the great divide.

The thing is though, there are some people who cannot be saved. They can
never reclaim themselves, because they have become so degraded there is
nothing left to reclaim, or they never had the will to stand alone.
There is safety in being a supplicant, so they habituate themselves to
that life until they can no longer imagine any other. For them, it is
the only way they can live. That’s what you see with the sad spectacle
of [so-called conservative opinion
makers](https://web.archive.org/web/20190120180119/https:/www.nationalreview.com/corner/nathan-phillips-covington-catholic-high-school-march-for-life-mocking-students-spit-cross/)
attacking the [Covington High School
kids](https://www.cincinnati.com/story/news/2019/01/19/video-shows-apparent-incident-indigenous-peoples-march/2623820002/).

To normal men, what those boys did is inspiring. It shows that there is
still some life left in our people. That old degenerate with the tom-tom
thought he could just show up and force the white kids to submit.
Instead, they stared the old crook down, refusing to play the role of
conquered men. The smirks and MAGA hats are a great touch, but the mere
act of rebellion among young people is the inspiring part. It says all
the anti-white rhetoric and the endless assault on white men is having
the opposite of the intended effect.

To the conquered men, the house negroes of Conservative Inc., this is
frightening, so their first instinct is to run to their masters and
condemn the insouciance of these boys. The only thing missing from the
Frankovich piece was a few lines about how this is “not who we are”, as
in “master, this is not who I am.” It is a revolting display of cowardly
groveling, but so common with these worms that it has become a meme.
Social media is full of “the conservative case for \[fill in liberal
cause\]” one liners.

Nicholas Frankovich is a horrible person, but he is a useful example for
explaining why there are acts of retribution after every revolution. In
every race of people, there are people like him, who would rather crawl
on their bellies to the service of a conqueror, than risk a hair on his
head in defense of his people. These are the people found swinging from
light posts after the conquerors are overthrown. For a victorious and
proud people, there can never be any quarter given to the conquered man.
