---
title: "A Lack Of Imagination"
date: "2019-04-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17104"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17104"
---

For people with an interest in history, the best part of travel is
seeing the things that you recall from your history books. To stand on
the grounds of some historic battle, imagining what it was like for the
people involved, makes history come alive. Usually, the thing that
surprises people is the smallness. You see the place where some great
conflict was resolved and you’re suddenly struck by just how human it is
in terms of scale. That’s when it hits you that it was real people
engaged in real human activity.

That was my experience at
<a href="https://www.visitturku.fi/en/turku-castle_en"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Turku castle</a> when I was in
Finland. I’ve been in a lot of very old buildings, so I am used to the
closeness of these places, but the smallness of the castle was
impressive. From the outside, it has the desired effect. It is towering
as you approach it on foot, which was surely the idea of the people who
built it. It was supposed to be an intimidating fortification. The guys
in side, after all, were the people in charge and they wanted everyone
within eye-shot to know it and respect it.

Once you enter, perspective begins to change. In the late 13th century
when the castle was built, Europeans had not caught up to the Romans, in
terms of engineering and architecture. The arch was still a struggle,
for example. As a result, in order to build up, it still meant starting
wide. If you wanted a high wall, it had to have a very wide base. To
have multiple floors, meant thick ceilings, tiny windows and narrow
passageways. The effect, once inside, is almost claustrophobic. It was
like living in a cave.

One of the stranger things you will see when you tour the place is young
people constantly looking at their phones. At first I thought they were
just texting friends or simply unable to pay attention. Instead, what I
learned is they were looking at pictures on-line of where they were in
the castle. In other words, reality was now their virtual reality and
virtual reality was their reality. They could better relate to the
images on their phones and the descriptions, than the actual place with
the plaques describing the rooms.

In <a
href="https://news.yahoo.com/fifty-communal-toilets-where-slaves-114152784.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story</a> about the
opening of Nero’s palace, there is a bit toward the bottom where they
describe how you can experience the place with virtual reality goggles.
There is a picture of people looking rather silly with the things
strapped onto their faces. They look like prisoners in some sort of
dystopian prison facility. As absurd as it seems, the people who created
the exhibit think it is a winning idea. They are probably right. Young
people will prefer to sit in the darkness wearing a headset than trying
to use their imagination.

When I was a kid, people used to fret about young people watching
television, rather than using their imaginations playing games. Most of
these concerns were dismissed, as television was rather crude. I grew up
with a black and white television until we got the fancy color model
that was rather cartoonish in retrospect. No child was ever going to
mistake the flickering images on the TV screen for reality or even a
plausible replacement for what they could imagine. Television was just
fancy cartoons at that stage.

We have come a long way and more important, the internet is far more
immersive than television, because it is interactive. About a quarter of
adult Americans are <a
href="https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2018/03/14/about-a-quarter-of-americans-report-going-online-almost-constantly/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">on-line constantly</a>. Some
of it is the requirement of work, but most of it is simply the fact that
on-line is now as much a part of real life as real life. It’s no
surprise that those young people in Turku would be confused by the
inside of that castle and decide to use their phones to reorient
themselves. They lack the imagination to do otherwise.

That’s the thing about imagination. It is a form of getting lost. To
imagine things you have to wander off from what you know, using bits and
pieces of what you do know to infer things about someplace you have
never seen or create a place that does not exist. To imagine what it was
like for people 500 years ago, you have to leave this world and wander
off to a place you can never truly know. It’s like wandering off in a
strange city. There is a risk involved, as you could imagine things that
you don’t like all that much.

That’s another thing you see while traveling. Of course, we all see
young people walking about with their phone right in front of their
face. It’s easy to make sport of, because it is ridiculous to anyone
over the age of 40, but it says something about the age. You’ll also
notice fewer tourists just wandering around a city. They use their GPS
to go from point to point, as if the in-between bits are static. Just
wandering around is not only scary to modern people, it is pointless.
They can’t imagine the purpose of it.

As the doors of the custodial state slowly close on us, you have to
wonder if one of the consequences is a loss of imagination. Maybe that
is just a function of us getting dumber, but the immersion in virtual
reality may play a part as well. In fact, that may be why people are so
sanguine about their infantilization. Their minds are so busy in the
virtual world, they are oblivious to what’s happening in the real world.
Notice the concern for on-line censorship, but the indifference to an
oligopoly controlling the financial system.

On the other hand, maybe the apparent lack of imagination is simply an
end point, in the Spenglarian sense of history. The escape into the
virtual world is not an escape at all, but rather a new way to
experience the same old thing. Virtual reality is like a rebooting of an
old movie or TV series. The person’s on-line life is the same character
they play in real life, just on a different set. Like old people
reminiscing about the old days, we’re simply busying ourselves as we
wait to be washed away by whatever comes next.
