---
title: "Medieval Jewish Policy"
date: "2019-08-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18424"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18424"
---

The standard narrative, with regards to relations between Christians and
Jews, is one of constant conflict. The Jews have been subjected to
various forms of repression, ranging from marginalization to genocide.
The underlying assumption is that the Christian majority was either
motivated by religious fanaticism or ignorant bigotry. Of course, the
events during World War II loom large in this understanding. The Germans
are just assumed to have gone insane and followed an anti-Semitic
madman.

That’s what makes the book
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0816656983/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Early Medieval Jewish Policy
in Western Europe</a> such an interesting read. Instead of the modern
practice of working backwards to force history into the current
narrative, it is a review of the polices toward the Jews, in the
centuries following the fall of the Western Roman Empire. It’s an old
book, published in 1977, by a now retired scholar of the period. It’s
also a short book, just 140 pages. The style and brevity makes it a good
introduction to the period for the casual reader.

The book starts with a review of Jewish policy under the
<a href="http://themiddleages.net/visigoths.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Visigoths</a>, who ruled what
is now Western France and most of what is now Spain. Both Gaul and
Iberia had large Jewish populations by the end of the Roman Empire. The
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breviary_of_Alaric"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Breviary of Alaric</a> was a
collection of Roman laws that applied to the Hispano-Roman and
Gallo-Roman population, living under Visigoth rule. It was within this
body of laws that official policy regarding the Jews was established in
the Visigoth kingdom.

Under the Visigoths, the Jews had a great deal of autonomy. They
maintained their own courts, were permitted to own slaves and conduct
trade within the kingdom. More important, the Jews were rich and
powerful, so they played a large role in the internal politics of the
kingdom. The main area of conflict was over the Jewish habit of
proselytizing to the Christians as well as the pagans. The Church would
tolerate the Jews converting pagans, but not the converting of
Christians.

That’s the most interesting aspect of the book. Throughout the early
medieval period, the Jewish populations in the former Western Roman
Empire were endlessly proselytizing to the Christian populations. This
was not just under the Visigoths in the early Christian period. This
continued through the Carolingian period, despite very strong objections
from the Church. Even the Church, however, was forced to overlook these
violations of the law, as the Jews had a lot of power.

If one were to search for a starting point of anti-Jewish sentiment in
the West, it would not date to the time of Christ, but to the medieval
period. Jews not only competed with the Church politically and
culturally, they were very aggressive in their approach to Christians.
For example, in the Carolingian period, Jews widely circulated the
[Toledot Yeshu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toledot_Yeshu), which is
an alternative biography of Jesus. It describes Jesus as an illegitimate
child, who practiced magic, was an adulterer, and died a shameful death.

The Church, of course, was not happy about this behavior, but lacked the
power to do much about it, other than train better priests. That’s
another interesting aspect of the period. Jews and Christians regulars
celebrated feats together and Christians tended to prefer the Jewish
sermons to that offered by the Church. Many Bishops also had good
relations with the Jews in their area. In other words, into the Middle
Ages, there was not much in the way of antisemitism, at least not as we
understand it.

It was these twin realities that drove the development of anti-Jewish
policy in the Church during this period. Many important churchman,
individually and collectively, not only feared the proselytizing of the
Jews, but worried about the fact Judaism was very attractive to both
pagans and Christians. It was in this period that institutional
opposition to Judaism developed and evolved, despite the fact that the
secular authorities were pro-Jewish in their policies. Antisemitism was
a reaction to this.

Another aspect to all of this is the fact that Jews used to be
aggressive proselytizers, working hard to convert pagans and Christians.
Today, the opposite is true. While anyone can become a Jew, that’s like
saying anyone can become a physicist. It is technically true, but
conversion is not common. Jewish law requires the rabbi to try three
times to discourage the convert. This policy may have been a response to
the conflicts with the Church over the conversion of Christians.

Probably the most surprising thing in the book is just how pro-Jewish
most secular rulers were in the early medieval period. Charlemagne and
his son Louis the Pious were extremely favorable to the Jews in their
domains. They actively encouraged Jews to immigrate into their lands and
gave them special privileges to conduct trade. They also had many Jews
serving in administrative roles, holding power over Christians. The Jews
were treated better than the Church in many cases.

The reality of the early medieval period is that the secular authorities
maintained a very tenuous grip on their holdings. The king relied upon
the local landowners and community leaders to maintain control. In many
cases, those wealthy and powerful people were Jews within large Jewish
communities. As a result, the Church was often the least influential
institution. In many cases, the local bishop relied upon Jewish support
to maintain his position. The Jews had a lot of power.

Probably the most telling point in this regard is the fact that the most
successful monarchs of the period all had pro-Jewish polices.
Charlemagne, Theodoric the Great and Gregory the Great pursued
pro-Jewish polices. The Jews were literate, wealthy and maintained
well-organized, long-standing contacts with Jewish communities
throughout the West and East. As such, they were a powerful ally. In
return for Jewish support, successful Christian rulers protected Jewish
interests.

As much as this reality contradicts the current narrative, it also
contradicts many anti-Semitic narratives as well. For example, it is
popular with modern anti-Semites to claim the Jews worked with the
Muslims in conquering Christian Spain. In reality, the Jews were willing
to work with whoever looked like a winner. Jews also worked with
Christians against the Muslims and sided with the Viking raiders when
they sacked Bordeaux. They also worked with the Franks against the
Vikings.

One final bit of interest is it seems that the beginning of Jewish
hatred for the Catholic Church began in this period. This hatred turns
up today in modern Zionism. In Yoram Hazony’s book, *The Virtue of
Nationalism*, he repeatedly claims that Catholicism was a form of
empire, which he condemns. It’s a strange tick, given that the Catholic
Church holds little influence in the modern world. It was the Church,
however, that managed to reduce Jewish power in the West, starting in
the medieval period.

The book does not address this issue, but the fact that Church policy
was separate, often at odds with official policy, in the kingdoms of the
early medieval period, made it possible for Jews to carve out special
privileges. Once Church policy became entangled with official policy,
this was no longer possible. Jews were then marginalized and isolated,
in order to prevent them from influencing the secular authorities and
proselytizing to the Christians. The Catholic Church was bad for Jews.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
