---
title: "Old And Busted"
date: "2019-02-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16347"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16347"
---

Way back in the before times, at the dawn of the interwebs, I had some
dealings with a small niche publisher. He had a few small newspapers he
sold that focused on narrow subjects. Before the internet, there were a
lot of these publications. Some were in the magazine format, while
others were like a small newspaper. The model was to charge a relatively
high subscription fee to a small audience. They could not sell ads, so
the only way they could survive was on high subscription rates to loyal
fans.

One day, this publisher starts telling me about his plans to abandon the
old model and move to the internet. That way he could cut his production
and postage costs, which were the biggest part of his operation. I asked
him how he was going to handle the revenue side, as this was before
firewalls and on-line payment processing, He said he was going to make
up the difference with clicks. After some back and forth, I told him
banks do not take clicks, so he better come up with a way to make money,
rather than clicks.

The guy thought I was just ignorant about the way the future would work,
so he dismissed my skepticism. He was not alone. In the 1990’s, everyone
was given a disk and then a CD that allowed them to get on-line and feel
like they were on the cutting edge of technology. They were in the new
economy, with clicks and traffic, not the old economy with money and
expenses. It was a good lesson in human nature. Take people out of their
natural environment and you suddenly see their raw cognitive ability.

That story comes to mind whenever there are layoffs in media and the
media start analyzing what went wrong. [This
story](https://www.wired.com/story/medias-fatal-flaw-ignoring-the-mistakes-of-newspapers/)
at Wired is better than most, but the fact that it needs to be written
at this late date says a lot about the people in the media. By now,
everyone should know that the newspaper model was never about the news.
It was about the distribution system. The newspaper brought ads and
marketing material to the people at a cost and efficiency no one could
match. That was always their business.

The news part was the marketing expense. People would buy the paper
because of gossip or the sports pages. The news was only interesting
when something interesting was happening. Otherwise, the so-called hard
news side was a sinkhole. When the internet robbed these operations of
their distribution hegemony, the logic of their business went with it.
When the internet robbed them of gossip and sports, they were left with
hard news, which has a tiny market, but huge expense.

This was obvious by the middle of the Bush years. Yet people in the news
business have never noticed. Today, in a world where most everyone knows
most of the news is fake, just made up by desperate losers looking for
attention, the point should be impossible to ignore, but here we are
anyway. After Vice, Huffington Post and Buzzfeed cut staff in what will
be a long journey into insolvency, the media was full of handwringing
about the state of journalism. It suggests the people in the media are
not terribly bright.

That still leaves open the question as to why no one can find a model
for news that is sustainable, without rigging the market or relying on
the charity of billionaires. The on-line advertising model was always a
bit of sham and that is becoming [increasingly
clear](https://qz.com/1195777/googles-swelling-advertising-business-couldnt-save-profits-in-q4-2017/)
as Google and Facebook monopolize the space. Even there, the viewership
of the ads is declining, as people employ counter measures. The result
is more people are exposed to ads, but fewer people are watching them.
At some point, that becomes a problem.

What may be true of the news business is that without monopoly or
oligopoly power, it cannot exist beyond some scale. That is, a form of
[Brook’s Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brooks%27s_law) comes into
play. The more journalists that are added to a news enterprise, beyond
some optimal number, the faster the enterprise descends into insolvency.
A single journalist can create enough content for a theoretical maximum
of consumers. Two journalists, however, can produce something less than
the sum of those theoretical maximums.

This would explain why local papers somehow manage to bugger on, despite
what is happening to city broadsheets and even tabloids. It is not that
the local paper fills a niche, which is certainly true. It is that it
never grows beyond a certain size and that size is well below the
failure point. The people working in it do not see themselves as a
secular clerisy and instead take a practical view of their job. As a
result, the cultural dynamic inside the organization is like you see
inside any small local business.

Another point worth mentioning is that it has always been assumed a new
economy would evolve to take advantage of the new efficiency brought on
by technology, particularly the free flow of information on-line. What
is going on with mass media suggests maybe there is another option.
Technology eliminates large chunks of economic activity, not through
automation, but by making it impossible to maintain barriers to entry.
That is, when the price of something fully reflects all available
information, the price drops to zero.
