---
title: "Jellybean Economics"
date: "2019-02-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16374"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16374"
---

Imagine you find yourself in one of those underground malls, where they
design it in such that you never have to go above ground. Now, instead
of just the mall, you are living and working space is also underground.
It is an underground community that is like a small town, except
everyone is stuck there, unable to leave the mole utopia. You know,
however, that there is a world outside and that people live above
ground. It is a not prison, just a system that is complete, so you have
no reason to leave the mole utopia.

In your world, everything works like it does in the world of today.
People have jobs, socialize, conduct commerce, and have families, all
the stuff we associate with normal human society. The one difference
between the mole utopia and this world is their economy is based on
jellybeans, the little candies given to kids at Easter. Each color has a
different value and people treat them in the same way you would treat
coins or bills. When you get paid, it is in jellybeans. When you buy
stuff, it is in jellybeans.

No one knows where the beans come from or who is responsible for making
sure the supply of beans is correct. There is some vague notion of a
jellybean consortium and people who spend their days keeping track of
all beans in circulation. There are people who police the bakers to make
sure they are not making fake jellybeans. Otherwise, the beans are just
the thing that is there, taken for granted by everyone. The jellybeans
used in commerce are as much a part of reality as the air people
breathe.

Now, there are people in charge, and they do control the supply of
beans. At first, when they set the system up, they figured the goal was
to keep the supply of beans constant, as beans are fragile and people
will tend to eat them. The best bean counters in mole utopia were
recruited to keep track of the flow of beans in order to determine the
overall supply and rate of bean decay. They would order new beans to be
introduced into the supply to keep the supply of beans steady, so there
could never be a shortage.

At first, they would just have people hand out beans under the guise of
charity, but before long the people doing that started cheating. They
would keep the beans or only give them to friends and family. The next
scheme was to have the government of mole utopia disperse the new beans,
by hiring people and buying stuff. This worked pretty well until
government started cheating and ordered up beans whenever it needed to
buy votes or reward friends of the government. This caused people to
lose faith in the jellybeans.

Finally, the bean counters landed on a scheme where they would lend the
new beans to banks at extremely low interest. The bean banks, flush with
new beans, would then lend beans to people at very low rates. This got
the beans into the economy, without anyone stealing them or using the
supply to corrupt the system. The one flaw is the bankers got rich from
the scheme, but bankers are always rich, so no one really noticed much
of a change. It also made the bankers dependent on the bean counters.

The bankers could lend to anyone, including the government. Since rates
were so low, the government could borrow vastly more than under the
prior arrangements. That meant they could spend vastly more than in the
past. The bankers were never worried about the government repaying,
because ultimately, they controlled the supply of beans, so they could
always order more beans. That meant it was the safest type of loan,
because the government would always make its payments and make them in
full.

The only constraint on the government spending was how fast they could
increase spending. Too fast an increase and too many beans would enter
the economy of mole utopia, lowering the value of each bean. This could
distort markets in unpredictable ways, by increasing demand unexpectedly
in some areas, but not in others. This would also raise prices and force
lending rates to increase. Therefore, inflation became the only check on
spending. As long as inflation remained low, spending was unlimited.

This description of mole utopia may sound simple and ridiculous, but it
is how the modern American economy is run by the Federal Reserve. Modern
Monetary Theory is the economic argument that government spending is
only constrained by inflation, as long as the government has control of
the money supply. Here is a [short
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WS9nP-BKa3M) lecture on the topic
from Professor Stephanie Kelton of Stony Brook University.
[Here](https://www.zerohedge.com/news/2019-01-31/eveything-you-wanted-know-about-mmt-were-afraid-ask)
is a much shorter version in the form of a post that appeared on Zero
Hedge last week.

The basic argument of the MMT people is that as long as there are
resources not being utilized by the private sector, the state has a duty
to step in and put those resources to use through government spending.
That is a moral argument, not an economic argument or a factual
observation. The economic argument is that spending and debt are
meaningless, as long as the state is not crowding out the private sector
and the spending is not driving up retail inflation. Otherwise, the
government can spend as much as necessary.

To many people, this sounds like a version of the old joke about the
stranger who comes to a small town looking for a room. He plops down a
few hundred dollars and the inn keeper tells him to wait while his room
is prepared. In the meantime, the innkeeper rushes out to pay his
vendors, who then rush out to pay their vendors. Eventually, that new
money reaches the town’s prostitutes, who use the inn for their clients,
renting rooms on credit. They rush in with the new money and pay the
innkeeper what they owe.

In that old gag, the stranger changes his mind about a room, takes his
money back and leaves town, but everyone that was owed money is now
paid. That is the joke. The lesson, of course, is that as long as
everyone is getting paid, especially the prostitutes, the system keeps
spinning and everyone is happy. That is the moral theory of MMT in a
nutshell. As long as productive resources are being utilized and
everyone is getting paid, the system keeps spinning. Just as important,
the society remains stable.

The critics will instinctively shoot back that this sort of economics is
inherently unstable, and the apparent stability is short lived. In the
long run, the accumulation of debt becomes untenable and the system
collapses. The response to that is that no one, especially government,
lives in the long run. More importantly, MMT answers the question as to
how government should respond to automation. As robots eliminate jobs,
more people become idle. How does the state address the problem of fewer
jobs for a growing population?

There is another way to look at this. The custodial state runs on the
same premise as a prison. The first job of the warden is to maintain
control of the prison. He does that by making sure the prisoners are
always kept busy in ways that work toward his goal of maintaining
control of the prison. One mechanism for doing that is controlling the
supply of goods and services in circulation in the prison. Prisons have
an economy based on items from the commissary and that commissary is
controlled by the warden.

What MMT seeks to do is make the sovereign state, by which is meant the
issuer of currency, the commissary of the American economy. By
controlling the supply of goods and services, via currency manipulation,
spending and debt, the state can keep an increasingly useless population
busy. It can always reward activities that enhance control of the system
and punish activity that creates disorder. Inevitably, the
communications companies, banks and technology firms become the prison
guards of the system.
