---
title: "The Active Citizens"
date: "2019-01-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16078"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16078"
---

Recently, I have been getting hammered with spam calls on my mobile
phone. These are robocalls for various scams. One that comes daily is
for some green energy scheme that promises to save me 50% off my
electric bill. Another is a call from “your credit card company” that
starts with “Don’t hang up.” I always hang up. The frequency of calls
has reached the point where I no longer bother answering my cell. I have
turned the volume down to zero and check the log occasionally to see if
anyone I know called.

This is a recent issue. I have had the same number for a long time that
I registered with the do not call registry. I have no idea if that
works, but the lack of spam calls had me thinking it must have worked
until recently. Out of curiosity I went to the site for the FTC to see
if maybe that service had been discontinued. It turns out that it still
exists, but the web site is down, supposedly because of the government
shutdown. [Here is the link](https://www.donotcall.gov/) and they posted
the notice in Spanish, for the convenience of Mexican users.

<img src="http://www.thezman.com/blogfiles/Capture.PNG"
class="alignnone size-full" decoding="async" width="619" height="257" />

Now, it would surprise no one to learn that a government website is just
a facade and that web requests are being handled by a person, who types
the response to each query. You can just imagine an army of Winston
Smith’s typing web responses and noting unapproved activity. That is
certainly not the case here. The bureaucrats in the FTC thought this was
a bold statement. It is just the petty nonsense that goes on with the
administrative state. They put that up to spite the public.

This small little incident I am describing is a microcosm of what is
wrong in the country. The FTC website should not exist. There is no need
for a do-not-call registry. The government could simply make the
telephone companies responsible for the abuse that goes on with
telemarketers. The phone companies would then demand the government pass
laws that discourage these scams. The phone system operators would then
aggressively police their networks and turn the scammers over to the
state.

That does not happen, of course. The idea of the government doing things
to make daily life easier on the citizens is so alien to us now that the
very suggestion of it is met with howls of protest. That is, after all,
what happened when Tucker Carlson suggested the people in charge start
worrying about the happiness of the public. The shrieking and gasping at
such blasphemy around the Imperial Capital were deafening. No one in the
ruling class, or their attendants, thinks the government owes us
anything.

The paleocon formulation for this is anarcho-tyranny. This is when the
state is no longer able to do the basics of government, like going after
phone scammers. That is the anarchy part. On the other hand, the state
is more than happy to hassle citizens over petty rules and regulations.
That is the tyranny. It is true in a lot of ways and certainly applies
to local government. That is not all of it though. There is a growing
hostility to the idea of people expecting their government to be
responsive to the public.

That is the core of the immigration debate, when you examine it. One
side still thinks it is the duty of government to protect the borders
and enforce the immigration laws. More important, they expect the
government to put the general welfare of the American people ahead of
the interests of foreigners. Sure, some immigration is fine, if they
assimilate and become an asset. In other words, immigration is just
another public policy, and the right policy is the one that serves the
interests of the citizens.

The other side thinks the only reason anyone wants to limit immigration
is to protect losers who cannot compete with the newcomers. After all,
only losers want the government to protect them from competition. [David
French calls it
victim-politics](https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/01/the-right-should-reject-tucker-carlsons-victimhood-populism/).
In other words, if you think the people in charge are not doing their
duty to look out for the interests of their fellow citizens, you are a
crybaby and loser. It is amazing, but a guy who has spent his life on
the government teat thinks his class owes you nothing.

In other words, we have gone past the old anarcho-tyranny formulation
into a new phase where the ruling class cannot be bothered to do
anything. In fact, they are offended by the very suggestion that they
have a duty to the rest of us. Carlson is going through an advertiser
boycott because he had the temerity to suggest that maybe the people in
charge are not doing their duty. All the beautiful people are rushing to
social media to defend billion-dollar global corporations against a guy
who says stuff on TV.

Of course, the pettiness of the administrative state and the hostility
to the idea of responsive government have the same root cause. The
ruling class no longer see the rest of us as being citizens in the way
they are citizens. We now have active citizens and passive citizens. The
former is for members of the managerial class and the latter is for the
rest of us. Active citizens get to talk about what kind of country they
want and how the government will achieve it. Passive citizens just sit
quietly in the cheap seats.

That is why they are so offended by Trump and the surge in populism.
They see it as something like a slave revolt. It is not the material
inconvenience. It is the moral effrontery of the hoi polloi daring to
question them. That is the reason the FTC site is down. The people who
did that think they are doing us a favor. They are offended and probably
bewildered as to why this is happening. They are so divorced from the
rest of us, we may as well be space aliens or wild creatures living in
the forest.

This is why reform is hopeless. It is not that “the deep state” is
secretly gaming the system to their advantage. There is nothing secret
here. The sorts of reform needed would have no material impact on our
rulers. The reason reform is hopeless is they now define themselves in
opposition to the rest of us. They no longer see themselves as our
fellow citizens. Rather, they see us as a threat to their status as
active citizens. Anything that blurs the lines between us and them must
be opposed, on principle.
