---
title: "Labor Day Thoughts"
date: "2019-09-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18552"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18552"
---

One of the consequences of the neoliberal order is that labor markets in
Western societies are at war with themselves. On the one hand, the
relentless competition within the managerial class, the so-called
meritocracy, results in a relentless, passive-aggressive struggle for
status. Within that class of people it is a state of constant anxiety,
as these people worry that one small misstep will cause them to lose
their standing within the managerial class. <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/09/meritocracys-miserable-winners/594760/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Everyone is miserable</a>.

On the other hand, the math of the managerial system means pitting
worker against worker, usually relying on foreign mercenaries, to
suppress wages and prevent class solidarity. In order to support the
swelling army of otherwise useless people in the media, academy and
government, it means extracting ever more from the laboring classes and
their private employers. The typical private sector worker is under
relentless daily pressure to do more with less.

Compounding this is the natural response to these pressures, where
workers accumulate in areas shielded from competition. Government grows,
as a jobs program and as a way to maintain support for government. The
massive growth in government, education and now health care are
responses to the relentless competition within the so-called private
sector. Skip to the bottom of <a
href="https://conversableeconomist.blogspot.com/2019/08/uwe-reinhardt-had-remarkable-skill-that.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this post,</a> where there is
a graph showing the growth in administrators within the American health
care industry.

One vice jaw is the relentless pressure for efficiency in the daily
lives of most workers, while the other jaw is a metastasizing layer of
naturally inefficient services crowding into daily lives. The typical
American spends all day under relentless pressure to perform, while
having to navigate a labyrinth of ineptitude in the other parts of their
lives. A trip to your kid’s school or a visit to the doctor is like
entering a secret world where nothing gets done, no one gets fired and
no one cares.

A reason America is such an angry place, despite the massive material
prosperity, is that the labor markets are upside down. Prosperity and
efficiency should result in a more relaxed and predictable private work
place. Good times are supposed to be good times, not a frenzied state of
constant worry. Within living memory, a booming economy meant a rise in
general happiness, as workers and business enjoyed the fruits of general
prosperity. Today, good times are defined by constant dread.

On the other hand, the administrative side of modern society,
government, education, health care, should be declining in the lives of
the people. In the dreaded private sector, automation means reductions
in labor. In the public sphere, automation has meant an explosion of
people. The post-Cold War economic boom has seen government more than
double. The education bureaucracy has swollen like a tumor. Health care,
as seen in that graph, has grown to become a dominant part of life.

Now, the dynamics in the workplace are not the only reason for the
rising unhappiness in the West. Importing those foreign mercenaries to
undermine domestic labor markets and dilute the vote has consequences
beyond economics. Today, people find themselves living among strangers,
who practice weird customs and speak exotic languages. America is
rapidly becoming <a
href="https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/08/21/u-s-counties-majority-nonwhite/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a land of foreigners</a>.
Diversity plus proximity always results in conflict. No one can afford
to relax anymore.

There’s also the massive wealth gap in modern America. As the
middle-class is being squeezed to support the managerial class, the
over-class is looking like the aristocracy of 18th century France. The
tech and financial barons live lives incomprehensible to middle-class
people. Worse yet, the reckless disregard of the over-class makes them
natural villains. Americans have been trained to admire success, but
today’s successful are ugly, un-American people, who elicit nothing but
contempt.

The growth of mass media certainly plays a part in the general
unhappiness. At the end of the Cold War, most people had television and
a newspaper. It was impossible for unwelcome advertisers to invade the
private space. Today, we are awash in media and most of it is terrible.
How many times do you have to have a video start playing while you are
reading the sports pages, before you are in a sour mood? Make that a
constant state and it is easy to see how mass media immiserates us.

Immigration, mass media and massive wealth gaps are certainly sources of
unhappiness, but they can be remedied. People can form local
communities, tune out the media and enjoy their own prosperity. The
conflict in the workplace and the growth of the administrative state are
unavoidable. Even in traditional homes, worry about the workplace will
cause private anxiety. The swollen ranks of single people, defined by
their career, are beholden to the daily uncertainty of the workplace.

Turning America is an economic zone, modeled on 20th century business
management techniques, has resulted in a marketplace of miserable
customers. Rather than economic prosperity resulting in a happy
populace, it is a free-for-all of Darwinian competition, where everyone
sees everyone as a threat. Prosperity itself becomes a daily threat, as
it is built on a relentless drive for efficiency. Bad times meant
belt-tightening. Today, good times means being replaced by a Hindu.

That slams into the other jaw of neoliberalism, which is the incoherent
inefficiency of the managerial class and their plaything the
administrative state. Leave the office to attend to something at your
kid’s school or get a physical and you are confronted with a world of
negative productivity, run by people with prestigious credentials,
frittering away their days in nonsense activities. The constant clash of
unpleasant realities makes a normal man spit on his hands, hoist the
black flag , and begin slitting throats.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
