---
title: "Process Conservatism"
date: "2019-08-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18319"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18319"
---

If you were to bring forward to our age the cultural and political
sensibilities of the founding generation and create a political movement
around them, you would find yourself in very serious trouble. The reason
is you would be so radical in your aims that even the most enthusiastic
of constitutional conservatives would denounce you. The reason for this,
is that everything about current year America is at odds with what the
men, who drafted the Constitution, intended for the country they
created.

Despite this rather obvious truth, modern day conservatives have been
calling themselves champions of originalism for generations. In fact,
they regularly claim they favor a return to the constitutional
principles. It is, of course, just a form of signaling or dog whistling
as the Left is fond of saying. The so-called conservatives have no
interest in returning to the original political order. In fact, any
effort to return to the old order is probably the only thing they would
actually fight to prevent.

This is because the Buckley-style conservatism that has come to define
the American Right was never about ends. When they talk of originalism,
they don’t mean the original intent of the Founders or even the original
intent of the law. Instead, they mean and original process.
Buckley-style conservatism is a means justifies the ends political
ideology, a reaction to the Left’s ends justifies the means approach.
For Buckley conservatives, getting the process right is all that
matters.

This is how something ridiculous like homosexual marriage can quickly
moves from an absurd Progressive troll to a timeless conservative
principle in a decade. All it requires was a journey through the courts,
where an emotionally unstable judge and four lunatics could make it the
law of the land. As long as it went through the proper legal process,
Buckley conservatives could hail it as a founding principle. For the
Buckleyites, originalism is about obedience to process, not original
intent.

<a
href="https://www.lawliberty.org/liberty-forum/is-legal-conservatism-as-accomplished-as-it-thinks-it-is/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This article</a> from a legal
journal is a good primer on how this obedience to process plays out in
conservative jurisprudence. By any measure, the Federalist Society types
have been the most successful tribe of modern conservatism. They get
judges appointed to the bench and they get law students interested in
their ideas. Given the atmosphere on the college campus, that last bit
is no small thing. Yet, despite their operational success, conservative
jurisprudence has nothing to show for itself.

This is the story of conservatism in general. Politically, the movement
started by Bill Buckley has been a smashing success. It reshaped the
Republican Party, put three presidents in the White House and turned the
GOP into the majority party from the 1990’s forward. Despite this, the
country is further to the Left than anyone imagined possible forty years
ago. The epitaph for Buckley conservatism, as it heads to the dustbin of
history, is that it conserved nothing.

There is no shortage of reasons for why conservatism failed to provide
any resistance to the Left, despite having the better grip on reality
and popular support. Radicalism always attracts fanatics and a small
group of fanatics can do a lot of damage. The Right is always playing
defense, which means their margin for error is smaller. The Left is
willing to lie, cheat and steal in order to gain victory. These and many
others are all true statements, but there is one main reason the
Buckleyites were a total failure.

As you see with originalism, the Buckleyites were never willing to state
what it is they sought to achieve as an end goal. The hyper-focus on
process allowed them to avoid making clear what they wanted. The
homosexual marriage issue is always a great example and it is so here.
Instead of saying homosexual marriage is irrational and at odds with
civil society, which is certainly true, the so-called conservatives
wrapped themselves in legal arguments about contract theory and
downstream legal issues.

The Right could never bring themselves to state the obvious. The intent
of marriage laws and customs is to encourage baby making. The language
of marriage makes that abundantly clear. The only purpose of marriage is
reproduction. The additional benefits created by society through laws
and rituals is to encourage reproduction. Homosexual marriage is
therefore an absurd contradiction. The Right never bothered with these
arguments and instead fell into Jesuitical legalism.

All of this traces back to the Civil Right era. Buckley and his fellow
founders of modern conservatism started out on the other side of the
race issue. They opposed desegregation and they opposed the civil rights
legislation of the 1960’s. Once it became clear the Left was going to
gain the moral high ground on the race issue, the Buckleyites were faced
with a choice. They could attack Progressive morality and risk ostracism
or they could adapt and fit within that new morality.

They adapted by switching from an ideology with a clear set of ends in
mind to an ideology that makes a fetish over process. It has become so
ingrained in conservative thinking they can chant slogans like “we have
to return to the founding principles” without noticing modern
conservatism opposes those principles. They can champion unlimited
immigration, as long as it is legal, but they are incapable of opposing
immigration in general. After all, that’s not who we are.

What conservatism under Buckley became is a shaming mechanism to prevent
whites, and let’s not kid ourselves about the conservative audience,
from stating publicly what they want for their community and their
country. Thanks to Buckley, it is no longer possible to say, “I don’t
want a bunch of foreigners moving into my town, because we live here and
that’s how we want it.” Stating preferences is no longer permitted.
Instead, what you want has to have some outside justification.

If there is to be a new Right, it will have to be an ends justifies the
means ideology with its own internal morality. Conservatism will have to
start with “This is who we are and this is how we seek to live.” The
goal of the ideology is to achieve a clear set of ends, not a set of
processes that may or may not achieve those ends. The process and
principles are means to an end. Put another way, a new Right will oppose
Progressive ends for non-Progressive reasons. There can be no
compromise.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
