---
title: "Rugged Individual Sociopaths"
date: "2019-01-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16307"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16307"
---

Imagine a discussion about the sex abuse that goes on in Hollywood, and
someone says, “I guess I’m meant to cry tears of sympathy for all of
these people who were molested. Somehow, I just cannot muster a single
tear. You made your choices. Nobody puts a gun to your head.” That would
no doubt elicit gasps and a good deal of the familiar point and sputter.
If nothing else, people are expected to show a little empathy for
victims, especially when it is kids or young adults.

Empathy is essential to a high-trust society. It allows people to
cooperate, rather than spend their time defending themselves from others
in society. Empathy allows people to engage with others, trusting that
the other side is acting in good faith and not trying to cheat the other
party. It makes it possible to engage in things like charity and social
improvement. When you can put yourself in the mind of a person outside
your kin-group, share their feelings about things, cooperation is
possible.

It is why liars and cheaters can never be tolerated. Their actions put
the trust of society into question, which means their lack of empathy
costs everyone. In some respects, the lack of empathy is worse than the
crime itself. A man who kills another man in a dispute, but feels
remorse, can be rehabilitated. A man who steals from another man and is
unable to understand why it is wrong or celebrates his act, can never be
rehabilitated and can never be a part of society.

This basic insight into the nature of society has been a central element
of the Western right since de Maistre. It was always the radical that
imagined human society as based entirely on self-interest. Humans would
either cooperate because it worked to their advantage or not cooperate
because it was to their advantage. Humans were selfish and altruism was
just a consequence of society and culture. Therefore, set the conditions
of society just right and people will cooperate.

The right has always rejected this. The quote at the start of this post
is a variation of [this
tweet](https://web.archive.org/web/20190129123017/https:/twitter.com/MattWalshBlog/status/1089865799098081280)
from Matt Walsh. He is, [according to
this](https://www.dailywire.com/authors/matt-walsh), “a writer, speaker,
author, and one of the religious right’s most influential young voices.”
In addition to that, “He is known for boldly tackling the tough subjects
and speaking out on faith and culture in a way that connects with his
generation and beyond.” In reality, he is reproducing official dogma for
the official right, what remains of it.

What that tweet reveals is that Official Conservatism™ thinks it is
perfectly fine for sophisticated parties to prey on unsophisticated
parties. In his case, it suggests the religious right would be fine with
the strong preying on the weak, as in the example at the start of the
post. After all, pederasty is by definition a crime because the adult is
sophisticated, while the young person is not. Therefore, it is assumed
they cannot bargain in the sexual marketplace on fair and equal terms.

There is nothing in the writing of Matt Walsh to suggest he is in favor
of pederasty, but there is no reason to think he would oppose it. After
all, if he is so utterly lacking in empathy that he cannot muster even a
bit of sympathy for people saddled with egregious school debt, his
fitness for society is in question. His brand of flamboyant sociopathy
is what we would expect from a predator. You have to wonder what is
wrong with someone who is so proudly callous toward his fellow citizens.

This is exactly why Official Conservatism™ is headed for the dustbin of
history. It no does not offer an alternative to radicalism. Instead, it
embraces the same callous and materialist view of society as the
radicals. It starts from the premise that we are just random strangers
flung together by serendipity, ruthlessly trying to advance our
self-interest. The only difference between the radical and the
conservative is that the former still thinks this can be remedied, while
the latter embraces it.

A civil society is one in which the individuals naturally balance their
interests against the interests of the whole. Popular government assumes
this to be true. The people will debate and persuade one another about
the proper balance. A democratic society composed of sociopaths quickly
descends into gang warfare, wherever-shifting alliances of individuals
makes war upon one another in a zero-sum game, ruthlessly exploiting the
available resources. That is a prison yard, not a high-trust society.

That is why people with a soul should look at the student debt problem
with sympathy and horror. It is not just that these kids are saddled
with debt. It is that they and their parents are being preyed upon by
sophisticated parties, with the aid and protection of the state. It is a
form of economic piracy, in which the crown is quietly supporting the
pirates, at the expense of the people’s commerce. Conservatives have
always rejected this. Christians have always rejected this. Today, the
“religious right” embraces it.

This inability to comprehend the basic building blocks of Western
society is also why they cannot understand how open borders are a
disaster. For someone like Matt Walsh, people are interchangeable, not
only with one another, but with other economic units. In the materialist
world view, social capital matters only in that it can be exploited for
economic gain. In the zero-trust, Hobbesian world of the modern
conservative, the greater the diversity, the greater the openness, which
makes exploitation easier.

Authentic conservatism has always understood that Western society is
built on trust, and trust comes naturally to the familiar. Our greatest
natural empathy is toward our family and then our kin group. From there
it is extends, but weakens, to those who look and sound like our kin. It
breaks down entirely when it reaches those who are alien in appearance,
speech, and custom. Therefore, high-trust societies can only exist in
societies with a shared heritage and a shared biology. Diversity and
trust are mutually exclusive.
