---
title: "The Incoherent Right"
date: "2019-06-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17928"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17928"
---

In a democracy, all political debate is a debate over morality, as what
holds democracy together is a civic religion. The people agree to a set
of political arrangements because they agree those are the *right* way
to organize society. That’s *right* as in morally correct, not
empirically correct. Democracy has been sold as the best form of
government, because it achieves the most happiness and opportunity for
the most amount of people. That’s a moral argument, not an empirical
one.

This is why the ruling class is endlessly talking about what is good for
democracy or what is a threat to democracy. This is all code for
morality. When they use the word democracy, they don’t mean the
mechanics of selecting people for public office. They mean the
expression of the general will, that magical force upon which modern
liberal democracy is built. The general will is the expression of the
general morality of the people, the framework that defines society and
the lives of the citizens.

It’s why rational arguments rarely carry the day in democracy. Debate in
democratic systems is about what is the *right* thing to do in terms of
morality, rather than what is best for some practical reason. Even
economics, which should focus on base concerns like making money and
overall prosperity, ends up sounding like a mystery cult, where
adherents worship the economy. The so-called conservatives are willing
to excuse the most monstrous things, if it is good for the economy.

The moral marketplace is the only marketplace that matters in a modern
liberal democracy. Even someone like Ocasio-Cortez understands this
fact. She famously said in response to criticism of her many factual
errors, “If people want to really blow up one figure here or one word
there, I would argue that they’re missing the forest for the trees. I
think that there’s a lot of people more concerned about being precisely,
factually, and semantically correct than about being morally right.”

It should be noted that the conservatives love mocking Cortez for this
statement, but it is self-mockery. Unlike them, she actually understands
the nature of political debate in a modern liberal democracy. Facts and
reason are not all that important. If they were, the Athenians would
never have agreed to attack Sicily. What matters is moral persuasion and
emotional resonance. Politics in a liberal democracy is theater, not
science. The fact that conservatives don’t get that helps explain their
demise.

This truth about liberal democracy is why Buckley-style conservatism has
been a failure since the end of the Cold War. In the one area it held
the moral high ground against radicalism, the fight over communism, it
was able to carry the day. The conservatives could control the moral
framing with regards to the Soviets. America abandoned all of its
republican ideals, becoming a global empire, in order to defeat global
communism. That shows the power of morality in a liberal democracy.

In all other areas, however, the so-called conservatives were happy to
give way to the radicals, allowing them to define the moral framework.
This is why the Official Right has been such a failure since the 1990’s.
The Left controls morality, so the Right must always find some way to
fit into that morality. That either means abandoning the field by
joining the libertarians on the sidelines or embracing yesterday’s
radicalism as today’s timeless conservative principle. The Right is the
toady of the Left.

It’s also why Buckley conservatism is in a crisis. You can see it in
this <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/new-deal-democrats-republican-party/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Kevin Williamson piece</a> on
who are the real racists. Like David French, Williamson is one of the
clown princes of modern conservatism, regularly declaring nutty things
on-line to the amusement of dissidents. In this case, he is doing the
old DR3 gag, claiming that those segregationist politicians from the
last century were not real conservatives. After all, everyone knows that
they were Democrats! That means they could not be conservatives.

Like all of today’s conservatives, Williamson believes anti-racism is
the highest conservative virtue. In fact, what’s left of the Buckley
crowd has embraced the egalitarianism of the Left to the point where
they are to the left of the Progressive on the race issue. The modern
conservative cannot hold a single position until they find a black guy
to endorse it. They seem to have decided that the movie
<a href="https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0146984/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Legend of Bagger Vance</a>
is a documentary on the lost writings of Edmund Burke.

The point of that Williamson article is not to make some factual or even
moral argument against the Left. It is all about displaying the
anti-racist plumage of the writer. It’s the same game you see with
left-wing comedy shows. The performer shows off his moral superiority
and the audience is flattered, so they cheer. It’s moral peacocking. The
difference between conservatives and a peacock is that when a peacock
displays his plumage, it is sign of courage. When conservatives do it,
it is a sign of obedience.

This is why Buckley Conservatism is in a crisis, headed for the dustbin
of history. In order to be in opposition to the ruling orthodoxy, you
have to be at odds with at least some of its moral foundation. That
means having an independent base of morality. In America, the Right used
to rely on Christianity, tradition and America’s frontier culture, but
those were abandoned as the Left anathematized each one in turn. That
leaves the Right arguing from the same moral basis as the Left, which is
why they are nothing but an echo now.

If you care about your community and want to support those working hard
on your behalf, consider supporting my work by donating the price of a
beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">Five bucks a month</a> is not a lot to ask.
Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money to destroy
your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC
P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer">PayPal</a> setup for those who prefer that
method to donate. Thank you for your support!
