---
title: "The Risk Of Speed"
date: "2019-01-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16012"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16012"
---

When it comes to automation, people tend to assume robots will perform
the same tasks as the humans they replace, just with fewer mistakes and
fewer days off. While that is true, automation almost always means
changing how the work gets done, to break it into discrete operations.
Instead of a man at a workstation, doing a series of tasks, each task is
done as a single event by a single robot. This simplifies the task of
automation and reduces the cost of the automation by eliminating
variables.

This atomization of the work not only makes the work process more
efficient, but it also changes how humans must analyze it. Instead of
focusing on the people, they must focus on the process. That is always
part of process improvement, but because the process changes and the
variables change, new phenomenon turns up in the process. In statistics,
they say quantity has a quality all its own. In automated systems, speed
has a quality all its own. Those super-fast, super accurate robots
change the nature of the process.

Think of the game of table tennis. It is a simple game, in terms of
strategy. The players try to trick one another with various tactics like
setting up a shot or putting spin on the ball so it is hard to return.
Player A will use top spin to force Player B to change how he strikes
the ball. At some point Player A will change, thus fooling Player B, who
then hits the ball beyond the far edge of the table. Alternatively, one
player will make the other player move side to side, increasing the
chances of a physical error.

If you are coaching table tennis, it is all about training the human to
play against the other human. Now, replace the players with robots. The
first thing that changes is the players will not make physical errors.
So, the side-to-side business no longer makes sense. The same is true of
using ball spin to induce a physical error. The robots will strike the
ball correctly each time. In other words, when you remove human error
and human emotion from the game, the strategy of the game must change as
well.

It also means the game changes. For example, the team that makes the
first robot player will build it to capitalize on human error. Soon,
other teams will replace their humans with robots. At that point,
everyone stops trying to exploit human error. Instead, they are trying
to make faster robots. If their robots can exceed the physical limits of
the other robots, then they win. Soon, there is an arms race between the
robot builders to make the fastest robot, in terms of physical response,
along with the faster processors.

If you stop and think about what this would look like, it sounds kind of
cool at first. The first robots would be slow and stupid, but eventually
they would be amazing. They would go from amusing to terrifying as the
speed of the game would become incomprehensible to humans. The speed,
agility and processing power of the machines would have the ball flying
through the air near its maximum velocity of 900 miles per hour. The
paddles would be made of special material, to prevent them from flying
apart.

Automating the game of table tennis would first result in removing the
strategy of the game that exploits human failure. This would be true of
any system that is being automated. System analysis would also change as
the speed of the machines would create new points of failure and new
challenges, in terms of finding efficiency and a competitive edge. In
other words, as problem-solving shifts from the human variable to the
engineering issues, system analysis must change accordingly.

Now, instead of robots playing table tennis, let us think of something
else. Currently, close to 90% of trades in the equities markets are done
by robots, which are just computer programs attached to the financial
system. These programs have access to financial data throughout the
system, which is inputted into their systems and the output is the buy
and sell decisions. Teams of smart people called “quants” spend endless
hours fine-tuning their programs to make them faster and more efficient
at trading equities.

If you read the book [The Money
Game](https://www.amazon.com/Money-Game-Adam-Smith/dp/0394721039), which
was written in the 1960’s, it presciently predicted the rise of the
machines in the financial markets. What was clear to smart people at the
dawn of the robot age, but not clear to most people, is the old systems
regulating and controlling markets would not hold up to automation. It
took the [Black Monday crash of
1987](https://www.cio.com/article/2437854/it-organization/remembering-black-monday--when-computers-traded-too-many-stocks-and-wall-street-cras.html)
for everyone to realize that the controls had to change in order to
accommodate the new robot players in the financial system.

In the 2000’s, the rise of [high speed trading
algorithms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-frequency_trading) and
large scale trading models eventually broke the system again. The
emergence of the so-called “flash-crash” was entirely due to speed.
While the first phase of automation removed the normal human checks on
trading, resulting in runaway selling, the next phase of automation
allowed for bad human decisions, like errors in trading algorithms, to
be implemented so quickly, the systems could not respond. The result was
erroneous sell-offs.

That brings us to the current market volatility. The decline itself is
getting all the attention, mostly for marketing and political reasons.
The dullards in the media know how to sell gloom and they like blaming
bad news on Trump. Historically, this bear market is not important.
Whether it is called a
[correction](https://www.fool.com/investing/2018/03/21/a-detailed-look-at-stock-market-corrections-over-t.aspx)
or a [bear
market](http://www.nbcnews.com/id/37740147/ns/business-stocks_and_economy/t/historic-bear-markets/#.XCI8WoClyUk),
the numbers are not all that significant. We have seen much worse. No
one is jumping from their office windows, and the public is not banging
the sell button on the investment account.

What is unique about this market is the weirdness. There is sustained
volatility, but also a sustained decline, that does not appear to
correlate to factors in the economy or in the financial system. The
tiniest bit of news can cause wild swings. Apple announced what everyone
should have known by now, that their toys are not selling as well as in
the past, and the market takes a big tumble. Apple shares dropped 10% in
minutes. Of course, this ripples to the rest of the market in seconds as
well.

What could be happening is the next phase of automation. The speed and
complexity of the algorithms are no longer comprehensible by the humans
involved in the system. Like our table tennis playing robots, a level of
speed and complexity passes the event horizon of humans to comprehend.
Watching robots play table tennis would be like watching a whirl of
stars, beautiful, but impossible for the mind to fathom. Similarly, the
new market dynamics may be reaching the limits of human regulators to
fathom.

This is not to imply that robot traders have become aware and are now
taking control of the system from humans. That would be interesting, but
the robots are still relatively dumb. Instead, they have reached levels
of efficiency and speed that exceeds our ability to model properly. The
result is the wild volatility and the seemingly irrational behavior of
the markets. Put another way, this is the age of basic ideas implemented
so fast and with such efficiency, they become irrational to their human
creators.
