---
title: "Religion Versus Capitalism"
date: "2019-05-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17241"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17241"
---

A peculiar feature of the West over the last half century or so is the
sudden decline in church attendance among Christians. In some parts of
Europe, church attendance has declined into the single digits. France
and Belgium have church attendance rates of around ten percent and it is
mostly among the old. Estonia is at two percent, which makes it the
least religious country in Europe, at least until they invite in enough
Muslims. Even in the United States, religiosity is in steep decline,
especially outside the South.

These declines have not been uniform. Quebec, for example, had high
church attendance rates until fairly recent. They also had a relatively
high fertility rate. Then all of a sudden, both went into steep decline.
Similarly, Poland had very high church attendance rates, even under the
yoke of communism, but then it started to fall. As in Quebec, this
recent drop in church attendance is with the young and corresponds to a
drop in fertility. As <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/How-Civilizations-Die-Islam-Dying/dp/159698273X"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">David Goldman observed</a>,
all over the world, religiosity and fertility follow the same path.

One assumed cause is social cycle theory, where a society goes through a
process of birth, life and death, with falling fertility and religiosity
in the late phases. Another explanation is that one causes the other.
That is, when women get jobs instead of getting pregnant, church
attendance falls. Alternatively, the drop in church attendance causes a
drop in fertility, as other traditional modes of life also decline.
Still others argue that multiculturalism crowds out both religion and
normal family life, causing the decline of both.

A better, less popular explanation for both the decline of religion and
the drop in fertility is the spread of what we call capitalism. In the
two examples of Quebec and Poland, the drop in fertility and religiosity
both coincided with their inclusion into the global economy starting in
the 1990’s. Quebec was not communist, but somewhat disconnected from the
emerging global economy, until the independence movement was defeated.
One result of that process was the greater integration of Quebec into
the global economy.

Poland, of course, was in the Soviet Bloc until the collapse of the
Soviet Union. It was then quickly and suddenly integrated into the
emerging global economy. Poland joined the West and then stopped going
to church and stopped making babies. Polish church attendance dropped
from 80% to 40% in a generation. The fertility rate in 1980 was 3.0 and
by 2000 it had dropped to 1.37. The opening of Poland to capitalism and
the global economy corresponded with the closing of Polish churches and
the Polish womb.

If you think about the nature of capitalism, in theory at least, and the
nature of religion, it is not hard to see the conflict. Capitalism not
only assumes certain things about people, it imposes them. The
marketplace is a competition to attain informational asymmetry between
the buyer and seller. The seller wants the buyer to over value the good
or service, while the buyer wants the seller to undervalue his product
or service. It is only in this way that either can expect to make a
profit from the transaction.

In a system where the highest good is a profit, then all other
considerations must be secondary. Lying, for example, is no longer
strictly prohibited. The seller will no longer feel obligated to
disclose everything to the buyer. The seller will exaggerate his claims
about his product or service. Buyers, of course, will seek to lock in
sellers into one way contracts based on information unknown the other
seller. The marketplace, at its most basic level, is a game of liar’s
poker, where all sides hope to fool the other.

Religion, in contrast, also assumes certain things about people, but
seeks to mitigate and ameliorate them. Generally speaking, religion
assumes the imperfection of man and sees that imperfection as the root
cause of human suffering. While those imperfections cannot be
eliminated, the negative effects can be reduced through moral codes,
contemplation and the full understanding of one’s nature. Religions,
outside of some extreme cults, are not about altering the nature of man,
but rather the acceptance of it.

Further, religion is a closed system, while the marketplace must be
open. In order to be in the sect, one has to adopt a certain lifestyle
and a certain set of beliefs. Most of all, the person has to be accepted
by the other members. The marketplace, in theory, is open to everyone
and the participants cannot exclude new entries. An ethos based on
extreme openness cannot peacefully coexist with a system based on
exclusivity. Not only has religion died in the West, but so have social
organizations like fraternal orders.

Now, to be precise, what we call capitalism is closer to what prior age
would have called corporatism or even fascism. The West is not living in
an age of free markets and open competition. Instead, it is in a period
of tightly controlled markets that are ruled by state protected
oligopolists. Finance is controlled by a relatively small number of
major banks and technology is run by a handful of global giants.
Healthcare is a government controlled monopoly. The neo-liberal order is
a global public-private partnership.

Since this arrangement lacks natural legitimacy, libertarians have been
brought in to create a civic religion based around worship of the
marketplace. It is why otherwise sensible people can support internet
censorship by “private” entities. People have been condition to accept
whatever private business does as morally legitimate. This new religion
in support of the neo-liberal order, like all secular religions, is
covetous and intolerant. It has to anathematize and marginalize any
alternative religion.

The rise of this new fusion of capital and state authority, centered in
Washington, does track with the decline of religion, fertility and local
institutions. Whether you call it globalism, neo-liberalism or
neo-conservatism, all of these terms describe the same system of rule by
a corporate-government partnership. It is hostile to religion, both
explicitly and implicitly, particularity Christianity. Faith in the
marketplace is inimical to faith in God. When man loses that, he loses
the will to go on and fertility rates plummet.
