---
title: "The Supreme Hive Mind"
date: "2019-12-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19206"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19206"
---

Whenever the Left is running a caper or pulling shenanigans, there is a
tendency to examine the event in isolation. Pundits and analysts will
look for why the Left is doing the narrow thing they are doing, usually
searching for the sort of causes that would motivate normal people.
Money and power are the two most popular explanations from the
conventional Right, as those are the things that matter to them. This
sort of analysis misses the mark, because it obscures the commonalities.

For example, the left-wing censorship phenomenon on social media is
discussed only within the context of the platforms. The on-going
impeachment circus is narrowly examined within the partisan framework of
imperial politics. Other than to notice the people behind these efforts
have certain similarities, these events are treated as discrete efforts
with their own peculiar motivations. Yet, it is what they have in common
that tells us much more about the current crisis.

In the case of impeachment, it is an outgrowth of the “resistance”
movement that started on-line immediately after the 2016 election. This
was launched initially on Twitter by the sorts of women that have become
a feature of modern life. These are the bitter, childless types, who
have reached middle years without having fulfilled their purpose as
women, so they are in a perpetual state of rage. Some are crazy for
other reasons, but these female rage heads are a stock character now.

The word “resist” is an important clue. When one is on attack, resist is
not the word you use to describe your efforts. The word “resist” is
always used in the context of defending something from an aggressor.
That’s how they came to view the 2016 election. It was an assault on
their ideological worldview. Since their sense of self is deeply
entangled with that worldview, 2016 was felt like an assault on their
person. They feel that they are resisting an intrusion into their most
personal of space.

It is this sense of being a victim, that their person has been violated
by Trump, that is behind the impeachment rage. These people look at
Trump entering Washington in the same way they view a rapist violating
them. Since there is no way to make it whole, they can never forgive the
violation. Their vengeance is perfectly justified, as they are infinity
aggrieved. Trump entered into a zone they view as exclusively theirs, as
if he violated their personal space, so he must be resisted at all
costs.

Something similar has been happening with social media. The first social
media platforms were message boards and comment sections on sites. The
first heavy handed moderation happened on the left-wing sites like Daily
Kos, which was popular in the Bush years. Anything that deviated from
official dogma was removed and the poster was banned. That was their
space and you dirty right-wing extremists had no right to enter their
space with your filthy racist ideas.

This sense of ownership and entitlement took over the big social media
platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. The same sorts of
screeching harpies behind the “resist” campaign are policing social
media for heretics. Those are their platform and they determine the
community standards. The use of the word “community” is a big clue as to
how these people think of these sites. They are not public platforms,
but communities in the same way your town is a community.

It is this hive minded view of politics that is behind the fanatical
purging of heretics and blasphemers from social media. The people behind
it have conflated these platforms with their own sense of themselves.
Just as Trump penetrating Washington is seen as the most egregious
personal violation, bad thinkers on YouTube are imagined to be spiritual
rapists, victimizing the community with their bad ideas. Purging these
monsters from the community is now a sacred duty.

This is why there is no reasoning with these people over things like
terms of service or the particulars of impeachment. It would be like
trying to talk a female grizzly out of defending her cubs. Her instinct
to defend is not a rational reaction. It is not the end point of a
decision tree. That’s the same thing going on with the impeachment
stuff, the subversion, the purging on-line, all of it. This is the
reaction of an organism to what it sees as a threat to its integrity.
This is how The Hive defends itself.

It is why any analysis of the Left in isolation tends to miss the point.
Everything these people do has to be examined within the larger context
of the hive mind. The blue-haired lesbian at Google issuing strikes to
your channel is not a person, but a node within the larger network of
the hive mind. These are people who have no agency, because what defines
them is their relations with the other nodes in the Progressive hive
mind. When you deal with one, you are dealing with all of them.

At the height of the French Revolution, Robespierre tried to impose a
secular religion on the French people. The cult of the Supreme Being
would be the official religion of the French people. In his speech
announcing this new religion to the people, Robespierre said of the new
deity, “He created the universe to proclaim His power. He created men to
help each other, to love each other mutually, and to attain to happiness
by the way of virtue.” Other than the pronouns, this is a modern liberal
creed.

Instead of a supernatural supreme being, the god at the center of the
Progressive consciousness is the hive mind. Instead of a name, they use
names of its manifestation, like “democracy” and “community.” Yet, it is
the same sense of devotion and ownership that drives them to defend it.
The Left views themselves as defenders of the faith. It is why they are
so ruthless and vengeful in defending that which is inside their mental
space, like official politics and social media. They belong to The Hive.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
