---
title: "The Custodial State"
date: "2019-09-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18638"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18638"
---

In <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Servile-State-Hilaire-Belloc/dp/0692282483"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Servile State</a>, Hilaire
Belloc argued that industrial capitalism would eventually result in a
transcendent regulatory regime. This regulatory regime replaces pure
capitalism with a system of duties and obligations. Instead of a pure
economic relationship between labor, business and the marketplace, a
legal relationship is created and enforced by the state. The state, in
theory, becomes the arbiter between the economic parties, balancing
claims and adjudicating disputes.

This dynamic works as follows. The state, facing popular unrest due to
the natural inequality that emerges from capitalism, sets about
regulating capital. In order to do that, however, it must also regulate
labor. Every new set of rules on capital requires a change or addition
to the rules on labor, resulting in a complex web of reciprocal
obligations and duties between the state capital and labor.

The regulatory regime that emerges from this dynamic would blur of the
lines between the state and capital. The state would protect the
interests of capital, while capital would support the interests of the
state. Further, the system would require people to work for others,
either as labor or as a paternalistic business owner. The business would
have legal duties to its workforce and labor would have no choice but to
work within the highly regulated system. Everyone is a servant of
everyone else.

When Belloc was writing, he did not imagine that the state and capital
would have a third element in addition to the economic and legal. That
is the spiritual. A century ago, the spiritual was still the explicit
domain of churches, which stood outside the economic and legal
relationship between the state, capital and labor. Public morality was
to some degree enforced by the state, but it was assumed that morality
had its roots in the religious traditions. Religion was the ultimate
moral authority.

Today, the spiritual is the domain of corporate giants. So-called “woke
capital” is an effort to impose an official morality on the public.
State sanctioned oligopolies control access to essential services like
the internet, banking and the media. The result is anyone falling
outside the accepted corporate morality runs the risk of being fired
from their job, losing access to essential services and being socially
ostracized. Woke capital not only has economic and legal duties. It has
spiritual duties, as well.

A good example to see how this works is in professional sports, where
the team owners are not just putting on shows for customers. They are
expected to provide morality tales to the public within and around the
presentation of the games. Owning a sports team is no longer about
owning an entertainment business. It’s not just rich guys blowing their
millions competing with one another. The sports team is now a public
trust, supported with billions in public money, in order to enforce
public morality.

Before and during the games, there are mini-performances that “celebrate
our democracy” or “celebrate our diversity.” These little shows have no
natural place in the game itself. People at a football game don’t care
that the teacher of the month is a one-legged gender fluid person of
color. No one cares, except for the people in charge of the show, who
see the event as a way to promote their morality. The proliferation of
pink, for example, is to display the dominance of that cult.

Then you have the regulation of the game itself. A player gets into
trouble and the league will investigate. Think about that for a second.
Not long ago, it was just assumed that the police and courts did the
investigating. If your employer learned you were charged with a crime,
they may ask you to resign or maybe take a leave of absence, but only if
it was going to be a distraction. Today, your employer believes they own
the whole you, even the parts of your life outside of your work.

What Belloc imagined was a world in which labor, business and the state
were tied together by a system of positive laws. The obligations on
capital and labor would resemble the ancient relationship between the
slave and owner. In the ancient world, slavery was a regulated practice.
The slave owner had duties to his slaves, like feeding them and
providing them with shelter. Of course, the slave was legally and
economically obligated to work for his master under the same regulatory
regime.

What we are seeing is a slightly different part of the ancient world,
the time when the West was transition from the Roman Empire to the
medieval period. In the early middle ages, slave owners were often
required to tend to the spiritual needs of their slaves by converting
them to Christianity or prohibiting them from converting to other
religions, especially Judaism. Jews, of course, saw it as their duty to
convert their slaves to their faith, despite the law. The slave owner
was his slave’s spiritual leader.

That’s the emerging custodial state. Belloc saw that the industrial age
allowed for the concentration of capital and the possibility of a
servile state. The technological age is allowing for a concentration of
power, not just wealth, and therefore the emergence of a custodial
state. The massive power centers based in technology and finance are
creating a thicket of economic, legal and spiritual obligations between
the managerial elite that control these power centers and the people
subject to them

You hear it in the language used by the servants of the tech barons.
When YouTube or Twitter stages a purge of “hate speech” they send out
women and homosexuals, a sort of priestly class in the custodial state,
to explain why they had to protect their people from these dangerous
purveyors of hate speech. They are not business owners serving
customers. They are keepers of a public trust. They have a moral duty,
they even say it, to look out for the emotional and spiritual well-being
of society.

This is where the social credit system the Trump administration is
planning will differ from what is evolving in China. The Chinese
communists are far too practical to worry about the spiritual well-being
of their people. They do worry about their social cohesion, especially
in difficult times. Their system is about suppressing those who will
question the party during difficult economic times. The Chinese social
credit system is an entirely defensive system to prevent the
organization of political opposition.

What is evolving in America is an offensive system. In order to maintain
an acceptable social credit score, people will have to actively display
their virtue. It’s not unreasonable to think they will be scanning the
crowds at sporting events to make sure everyone is properly enthusiastic
for the salute to our diversity. Your participation in the company
multicultural celebration will go a long way to determining your social
credit score, not just your position within the firm. Passivity will not
be tolerated.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
