---
title: "The Forever Heretic"
date: "2019-01-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16005"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16005"
---

Occasionally, particularly during the Obama years, someone would compare
the ideological enforcers to the Red Guards of Mao’s Cultural
Revolution. Inevitably, the response from many so-called conservatives,
would be that it was an exaggeration or just a bad comparison. After
all, today’s ideological enforcers just shriek and make life unpleasant
for the bad-thinker. No one is being forced to publicly confess to
imaginary crimes or being sent off to a reeducation camp.

The whole point of comparing something in the current time, or even the
near future, to something bad from the past, *is* exaggeration. The
point is to make the current thing appear worse, to warn of something
bad on the horizon. The shrieking social justice warriors may not be
physically attacking college professors today, but if they are not
stopped now, they could be doing this soon. That is the whole point of
the exaggerated comparison. It is to warn of something bad on the
horizon.

The question never considered is what happens when the warnings prove to
be correct, but no one is taking notice. That is, what if the shrieking
social justice warriors start forcing college professors to wear dunce
caps and the people in charge open reeducation camps for bad thinkers?
That would be bad, but it would be worse if people just shrugged and
said, “Sure, you were right about this turning into the Cultural
Revolution, but what are we going to do?” What exaggeration do we use
then?

We are now about to find out. [This
story](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/21/us/american-university-racist-hate-training.html)
from the New York Times was bouncing around among dissidents over the
holidays. It tells of a black woman who got her feelings hurt on Twitter
a couple of years ago. The people in charge used her sadness to force
one of the people making her sad to confess to imaginary crimes and
agree to spend 200 hours in a reeducation camp. Additionally, the black
girl will monitor his behavior and determine if he is sufficiently
submissive to her, before he is released from custody.

That sounds like an exaggeration, for sure, but it is not. A year ago,
American University celebrated the acquisition of a new totem to their
goodness, but then that totem was mocked on Twitter by people who read
the Daily Stormer website. One of them, Evan James McCarty of Eugene,
Ore., was hunted down and brought to trial. According to the New York
Times story, he was forced “to apologize, renounce white supremacy,
undergo counseling and help civil rights groups fight hate and bigotry.”

The point they are making, as is the point of any sort of mob justice or
vigilantism, is to send a warning to others. When the Maoists were
parading around bad thinkers in dunce caps, it was not about the victim.
It was a message to everyone else. You either fall in line or you face
something similar. That is the point of this case, and the harassment
campaign run by propaganda organs like the Huffington Post and the Daily
Beast. Kelly Weill and Chris Mathias are hired ideological enforcers,
not journalists or reporters.

No doubt people will argue that this characterization of this event is
out of line or an exaggeration. They will point out that the victim
agreed to perform the confession and agreed to enter a reeducation camp.
That is true, strictly speaking. It is also true that workers around the
country “volunteer” to undergo morality training and submit themselves
to examination, to ensure they are not blaspheming the gods of the
state. In an ideological state, people “volunteer” for a lot of things.

It is tempting to dust off [the great
quote](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/124952-in-my-study-of-communist-societies-i-came-to-the)
from Theodore Dalrymple about how in communist societies, the purpose of
propaganda was to humiliate. There’s certainly truth to that in this
case. The new class wanted to humiliate the Twitter troll to make a
point. They probably wanted him to wear a dunce cap and sandwich board
detailing his crimes, but maybe next time. The assumption is that no one
will want to submit themselves to the same humiliating punishments so
everyone will fall in line.

There is another side to the coin here. This was an act of vengeance.
The story and the facts make clear that the new class is angry that
anyone would dare disrespect the gods of the state. They are insulted by
these silly acts of rebellion. That is why the ink was not dry on the
settlement and the lawyers for the black girl were on the phone to the
New York Times with the details. They wanted to make sure that everyone
in this kid’s community knows he is a blasphemer and a heretic. It was a
high tech doxxing.

Therein lies the big difference between what the Maoists or Soviets were
doing to their heretics. The Chinese college professor wearing the dunce
cap, while being jeered by his revolutionary students had the hope that
one day the people doing the jeering would rehabilitate him. The Russian
forced to confess to harboring bad thoughts or listening to decadent
music could hope to get a reprieve, if he groveled sufficiently. In
other words, the condemned still had some chance at redemption.

There will be no rehabilitation for Evan James McCarty. This is now on
his permanent record. Anytime a prospective employer or rival in the
workplace puts his name into a search engine, his crimes will be
announced. That is the point of having this posted in the New York
Times. That is the real punishment. They are not allowed to brand him or
force him to wear an armband, so they make sure his crimes are announced
by the main organ of the ideological state. He will be a heretic
forever.

 
