---
title: "The Sophists"
date: "2019-02-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16493"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16493"
---

The word “sophist” has an entirely negative connotation today, owing
mostly to Plato, who had Socrates debate the sophists in his dialogue
*Gorgias*. In that dialogue, Socrates revealed the flaws of the
sophistic oratory popular in Athens. The art of persuasion was popular
with the Greeks of that age, as it was the key to success in politics
and law. Socrates argued that rhetoric without philosophy is just an
effort to persuade for personal gain. Worse, it could justify falsehood
over truth.

In ancient Greece, however, to be a sophist was something different than
what we think today. They were teachers, often highly esteemed. They
were hired by the wealthy to educate their children and prepare them for
a public life. They also had a great deal of influence on the
development of the law and political theory. Despite this, what has come
down to us is a generally negative view of the sophists.  That is
because we have little of their writing, but we have a lot from their
critics like Plato and Aristotle.

Despite this incomplete record, we can get some sense of what the
sophists were about by looking around the current age for people we
could describe as philosophers for hire. We do not have men walking the
streets in a himation, offering to persuade us of something for a fee,
but we do have plenty of public intellectuals. The ones we see on
television are not really philosophers for hire, as they work in
universities, think tanks and media companies. They are not hiring
themselves out on-demand.

We do have people on-line, however, who make a living selling books,
videos, and public appearances, in order to support themselves. Stefan
Molyneux is probably the best example, as he actually calls himself a
philosopher. He’s also written [a
book](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0756QYZ26/ref=dbs_a_def_rwt_hsch_vapi_tkin_p1_i1)
on persuasion. Scott Adams is another guy, who has carved out a career
on-line, where he offers arguments you can use on friends and family.
Coincidentally, he has written [a book on
persuasion](https://www.amazon.com/Win-Bigly-Persuasion-World-Matter-ebook/dp/B06X1DWK4Q/)
too. Amusingly, he claims to be a hypnotist, not a philosopher.

Molyneux and Adams are a good starting place as both are explicit in
their goals, and they are both heavily invested in the personal
presentation. Molyneux stands in front of a camera and talks to you as
if you are two guys at a party. It is intended to relax the viewer and
make him receptive. Similarly, Adams does his act from his kitchen
table. The desired effect is that the viewer feels like he is sitting
across from his old buddy Scott Adams, talking about the issues of the
day. Relaxed people are more persuadable.

The other thing you see with both is they put that camera right up on
their face, so the viewer is then up close and personal. This makes it
possible to communicate with facial expressions, rather than just words.
Adams puts the camera so close to his face at times it is a bit
uncomfortable. His dentist does not get that close. Molyneux is more
subtle and polished than Adams, owing to his theater training. He did [a
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NDbs2-8Aszo) touring his new
studio and the sophisticated tools he uses to achieve the desired
effect.

In fact, Molyneux’s performance cannot work without his exaggerated
facial expressions to complement the audio. [This recent
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C42pqp_QOx8) he did, addressing
criticism of his book, is incomprehensible without Molyneux’s
exaggerated facial tics. If you just listen to it, it sounds like
gibberish. Adams is a little less reliant on the facial cues, but as you
see in [this recent video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TejUYxdd-hw),
he needs them to make it work. Notice the ridiculously large coffee mug
he uses in the welcoming phase of his performance.

The use of props and exaggerated facial expressions is not new. Jon
Stewart got rich using exaggerated irony face on Comedy Central. Without
the over-the-top clown face stuff, his jokes do not work. His faces are
cues to the audience.  You laugh, because you are smart and get the
joke. The joke is always about how the people outside the hive are dumb
and mean, unlike the people inside laughing at Jon Stewart doing
exaggerated irony face, while watching clips of the bad people.

This is something Plato observed. Sophistry is a form of flattery. The
sophist first establishes himself as a wise man. He then convinces you
of something through his clever rhetoric. Once you agree, you become a
wise man too. It is why some people reading this will react negatively
to what they view as criticism of their favorite guy. The teacher
becomes a projection of the student’s sense of self, therefore, any
focus on or criticism of the teacher is viewed as a personal affront to
the student.

What this tells us is the sophists of ancient Athens were probably very
charismatic people, who had very loyal followings. Socrates could easily
be hated, because his criticism of the sophists was, in effect, a
criticism of Athens. It also might explain why they left little behind
in the way of writing. Their presentation was mostly visual. Writing it
down not only would have made it easy to analyze, but it would also not
have made much sense. The scribe taking notes could not capture the
facial expressions, gestures, and tone of voice.

Tone of voice is another aspect we can examine. The guy Molyneux
addresses in that video is someone calling himself [Rationality
Rules](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oLGh0wOXeAU). Again, a big part
of his presentation is the visual. He stands in front of a camera doing
the hipster douche bag act. You will also note the over-the-top sense of
urgency in his voice. He is almost pleading with the viewer to listen to
him. Up-talking, emotive tones and so forth are highly effective on the
millennials, so it is a persuasive tactic that compliments the rhetoric.

A fellow calling himself [The Alternative
Hypothesis](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u1jsWrQu7CQ&t=125s) combines
the visual and the audio to create a sense of urgency. Instead of
standing in front of the camera, like the other sophists on YouTube, he
weaves in clips from movies and still shots from cool paintings, to
complement his audio. It is extremely clever and quite effective. Seeing
an excited Kevin Branagh, playing Henry V as the narrator lowers the
boom on JF Gariepy, is both flattering, exhilarating and convincing. It
is a very clever presentation.

Again, what we can learn about the sophists of ancient Greece, by
observing their modern analogs, is that the old guys were probably quite
charming. A guy like Molyneux is impossible to hate, even if you hate
what he says. It is how he can be a race realist on Twitter and speak in
public. The videos from The Alternative Hypothesis are a lot of fun and
they are informative. Scott Adams makes people laugh with his
observations and cartoons. Odds are the ancient sophists were every bit
as likable and charming.

Of course, there is that old charge of speciousness and dishonestly,
with regards to the sophists of ancient Athens. Any comparison between
our moderns and the ancients has to address it. Our modern sophists are
prone to logical fallacies, and they can be quite prickly about
criticisms. We know the ancients were prone to logical fallacies and
they did help condemn Socrates, so that is a useful comparison. It
suggests our moderns are just as prone to placing rhetoric ahead of
truth as the sophists of ancient Greece.

It also suggests that the range of quality among the ancient sophists
was quite broad, and they had their good days and bad days. Scott Adams
is unlikely to argue that Molyneux should drink hemlock. The Alternative
Hypothesis is not going to argue that it is an advantage of his
profession that a man can be considered above specialists without having
to learn anything of substance. For many of our modern sophists, the
truth is important, so it is fair to assume the same was true in ancient
Greece.

Still, there is the nagging issue of persuasion versus truth. The one
thing we know about the sophists is they thought all knowledge is
opinion. Therefore, if everyone believes X to be true, then X is true.
That means there can be no rational or irrational arguments, because
human beliefs are situational. It is simply what people believe at any
moment in time. This is why persuasion was so important to the sophists.
To be correct was simply a process whereby you convinced your fellows
you have the correct opinion.

This is probably a symptom of democracy and another insight we can draw
by comparing our modern sophists with those of ancient Greece. In a
democracy, there is no arbiter of truth other than fifty percent plus
one. In a monarchy, the king is the truth, so there is no need for
debate, outside of his advisers. In a theocracy, dogma is the truth, and
the clergy are those who apply it to policy. What little debate required
is not about the truth, but about the application of truth. Again, there
is no need to persuade.

In a democracy the truth is what the majority says it is. There is no
central authority to arbitrate and there is no written text that cannot
be debated. The law itself becomes a source of dispute and contention in
order to bring the dispute to the people for a vote between opposing
opinions. Similarly, the marketplace is about winning market share by
convincing customers you have the best product. There is no right
product or service, just arguments and competition between them to win
the crowd.

This is a good time to mention something the Persian King Cyrus the
Great observed about the Greeks. Herodotus describes Cyrus’s meeting
with the Spartan envoy Lacrines, who warns the Persian king against
destroying a Greek city. Cyrus’s replied that he feared no people who
cheated one another on the Agora. In other words, at the heart of the
marketplace is a lie. The seller tries to deceive the buyer, and the
buyer tries to deceive the seller. The same can be said for debate in a
democracy.

This suggests sophistry is a naturally occurring product of democracy.
Sophistry is to a democracy what marketing is to the free market. When
there is a product to be sold, a pitch man arrives to sell it. As soon
as there is the first vote, a debater arrives to plead the case, on
behalf of the highest bidder. If cheating is the true currency of the
market, sophistry and deception are the currency of every democracy.
There is no truth in the marketplace and there is no truth in public
debate. There are only equilibria.

Finally, one unmistakable feature of itinerant YouTube philosophers is
they have very thin skin, taking all criticism as an offense to their
honor. A big part of the YouTube philosopher world is these guys doing
videos attacking one another and responding to these attacks. Part of it
is attention seeking. Most likely, the ancients relied on the same
tactic to get noticed. People like drama and the best sort of drama is
when two people get into a heated dispute in public. Again, it is safe
to assume this was true in Athens.

Another part of it though is the fact that status within the sophist
community is determined by how one’s persuasion game is judged. If other
sophists are picking you apart, you have to defend yourself, as they are
literally trying to harm you. Criticizing the argument is the same as
criticizing the man. When rhetoric is the coin of the realm, someone
appearing to diminish your rhetoric game is stealing money from your
pocket. It is why a Molyneux feels the need to respond to a two-year-old
video ripping his book.

Spengler observed that there is a cosmopolitan condition both at the
beginning and at the end of every Culture. The one at the beginning is
the flowering of that culture that comes from the work of those who
built it. The one at the end is more like a funeral march for the death
of those who made the culture possible. The sophist flourished in the
golden age of Greece. It was the full becoming of Greek culture. Perhaps
we are experiencing something similar. Our explosion of sophistry is our
denouement as well.
