---
title: "The Wilderness Of Mirrors"
date: "2019-11-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19060"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19060"
---

A general rule in democratic politics is that nothing anyone says or
does should be taken at face value.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Jesus_Angleton"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">James Jesus Angleton</a>
famously described the espionage game as a wilderness of mirrors,
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerontion"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a term</a> he borrowed from T.
S. Eliot. The same can be said of democratic politics. Everyone assumes
that everyone else is operating from a hidden agenda, so no one plays
anything straight. That is something to keep in mind when examining the
weird impeachment show the Democrats are staging.

Conventional wisdom says this is an extension of the long running
tantrum that began after the 2016 election. The Left, spiraling into
revolutionary madness, is demanding vengeance for 2016. Party leaders,
fearing a schism in the ranks, went along with what is a ceremonial
process. Pelosi has refused to initiate a formal impeachment inquiry, as
that would trigger a legal process that could easily get out of control.
Instead, she has gone along with what is turning out to be a
melodramatic fishing expedition.

Now, Adam Schiff is mentally ill. That’s not an amusing criticism, but
an obvious fact based on his bizarre behavior and deranged demeanor. He
is not too far from demanding witnesses <a
href="https://www.reddit.com/r/HistoryAnecdotes/comments/8rl3gx/king_christian_vii_of_denmark_has_a_peculiar/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">play leapfrog</a> while
entering the hearing room. He’s not the first party member to serve
while suffering from mental illness. David Wu, a congressman from
Oregon, went around <a
href="https://theweek.com/articles/487014/oregon-democrat-david-wus-bizarre-tigersuit-photo"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">dressed as a tiger</a>. The
reason for this circus could simply be that the lunatics have finally
taken over the asylum.

If we assume that not everyone has gone insane and that these lunatics
were allowed off their leash in order to serve some other purpose, the
question is what? It’s clear that they have nothing. If Pelosi allows
this to move to a formal impeachment process, then she would be betting
that this nothing stands up to what the White House would offer into
evidence, which would be very bad for everyone in the political class.
The party leaders are not going to roll those dice heading into an
election.

All of this, of course, is against the backdrop of the investigation
into the seditious plot to overturn the 2016 election. What should have
wrapped up a year ago is supposed to be reaching some sort of
denouement. Supposedly CIA officials are hiring lawyers and the
Inspector General is ready to issue criminal referrals. U.S. Attorney
John Durham is making <a
href="https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/john-durham-interviewed-australian-diplomat-whose-tip-prompted-trump-russia-investigation"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the sorts of inquiries</a>
that suggests he is serious. Despite the foot-dragging, it looks like
something may finally happen on that front.

This impeachment charade may very well be a part of some political
negotiating going on between Democrats and the White House. The IG
report has been delayed for months, so it is not unreasonable to think
there is backroom dealing going on that is holding up the release. If
there are to be indictments, then those who are indicted will surely
consider cutting a deal. This impeachment stuff could be a stall to give
the party time to cut deals with those who will take a fall and keep
quiet.

There’s also the possibility that this impeachment stuff is a stall for
time so the party can figure who did what exactly. One of the
interesting aspects of the 2016 spying plot is the number of people
involved. If it was a small group of conspirators, this would have been
swept under the rug a long time ago. The scale is no doubt slowing the
official inquiry, so it probably has slowed the unofficial ones as well.
Maybe that’s the real point of the impeachment show. The party is still
sorting the issue.

On the other hand, many of the people involved in the impeachment
charade were involved in the spying plot. The outside lawyers conspiring
with Schiff’s committee, were also involved in setting up the fake
evidence in the Russian hoax. Some were working in the DOJ during the
plot, while others worked on Mueller’s team. Much of the news
“reporting” on this is being done by “reporters” who had worked hand and
glove with the conspirators during the plot. We’re back to the lunatics
running the asylum.

What could be happening here is that the Schiff committee is really
trying to get a handle on what the administration knows about the
Ukrainian corruption and the seditious plot. These hearings are about
getting administration people to secretly tell Schiff what is known
about these scandals, maybe talk about what the IG has been doing over
the last three years. In other words, it is not about fishing for dirt
on Trump, but fishing for what Barr has on the conspirators.

Another angle to that is *the* Ukraine plays an absurdly large role in
American politics for some reason. The scandals of the Obama years
always seem to have some roots in the place. Maybe that reason is a
bigger, much scarier bit of corruption involving Ukraine that no one
wants made public. At this point, the image of Hillary Clinton’s
cackling visage should come to mind. Her off-the books e-mail system
seems to have a role in all of this. Maybe she sold Ukraine something
big.

There is one other facet here to consider. The genesis of this
impeachment stuff was the revelation that Joe Biden and probably many
other party members, were taking bribes from Ukrainian officials. That
probably ended Biden’s campaign as he has been fading ever since. Maybe
this Ukrainian stuff was just a way to get that information into the
public domain, either by the White House or by party radicals. This is
the sort of scheming these people do as a matter of habit.

Of course, you can go the other way with this and maybe the whole point
of this was to get the White House to reveal the Biden stuff. If that
came from some other source, the party media could not dismiss it as
political shenanigans. By raising questions about Trump and Ukraine, the
White House had to reveal what they had on Biden and anyone else getting
their beak wet in Ukraine. That’s a bit of 4-D chess, but it is a common
practice in politics. Accuse the other side of something outrageous in
order to make them talk about it or disclose their own schemes about it.

Then there is the planted story about <a
href="https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/470757-obama-cautions-2020-hopefuls-against-going-too-far-left"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Obama cautioning</a> the party
about going too far into crazy land. These stories are written up and
handed to sites like The Hill by the party, as a way to communicate to
party members. This brings us back to the decision by Pelosi to allow a
fake impeachment inquiry to proceed. Given the lack of public interest
and the lack of any evidence of wrongdoing, this whole thing may have
been a concession to the crazies, a concession that may soon be
withdrawn.

Finally, any rumination on this impeachment charade has to acknowledge
the lack of interest by the public. The media had their amplifiers
turned to eleven. The actors on cable chat shows were given the right
lines and the show opened with as much fanfare as possible. Like the new
Terminator movie, it has been a flop. People took a peak and then
stopped looking when they saw nothing there. Schiff really thought this
was going to be a hit, but he may have been the only one.

At this point, the Cloud People are so divorced from our reality they
are left to guess as to what interests the Dirt People. What we could be
seeing is the fantasy world of the Cloud People in the inner party’s
radical ghetto slamming into reality. They are suddenly learning that
the rabble does not share their obsession with the orange golem that
haunts their dreams. This impeachment show was just a big ceremony by
the ruling class that failed to resonate with the general public.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
