---
title: "The Cloud War"
date: "2019-05-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17550"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17550"
---

After the Mueller report was released, the conventional wisdom was that,
after a period of mourning by the crazies on the Left, the whole matter
would be forgotten. The Russian collusion nonsense had served its
purpose and now it was time to move onto figuring out who would replace
Trump. The Democrats have a massive field of candidates for their
nomination. This reflects the fractured nature of their coalition, so
the focus would shift to sorting out how best to unify the party around
a nominee.

That’s not what has happened. Instead, the Democrats are slowly <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/news/2019-05-22/pelosi-battles-mounting-pressure-impeach-trump"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">inching toward impeachment</a>,
while Trump and his new consigliere are moving ahead with investigating
the domestic spying scandal. Supposedly, Trump told Pelosi and Schumer
he was done dealing with them until they dropped the investigations.
This is probably just a lie fed to the willing media, as part of the
war. Most likely, the offer to drop all of it was made by Schumer, but
Trump rejected it, as he now has the better hand in this fight.

Proof of this is the decision to hand over to Bill Barr the power to
release classified documents related to this scandal and other scandals
as yet unknown. That last part is the real issue here. It is pretty much
accepted that elements within the FBI, and most likely the CIA,
conducted an illegal surveillance operation on the Trump campaign and
the Trump transition team. The only decision left on that front is
whether or not these people face changes or the whole thing is swept
under the rug.

That last part is where things get interesting. If everyone was sure the
parties in the FBI scandal were stand-up guys willing to do their time
and keep quiet. This is probably over and done with by now. The trouble
is, they are not stand-up guys. Worse yet, there are too many of them
and too well known to be Arkancided. If they get charged, they will
probably look to better-deal themselves by cooperating. What dirt they
can dish is the great unknown and it may even be unknown to the Democrat
leadership.

That brings us back to the order to authorize Bill Barr to release
classified documents into the public. As the <a
href="https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2019/05/23/president-trumps-declassification-directive-outlines-specific-process-and-direction/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Conservative Treehouse guy
noted</a>, the order has some unusual features to it. Giving Barr this
power is unprecedented, but that can be explained by the politics in
Washington right now. The real puzzle is the inclusion of the Department
of Treasury and the Department of Energy. What could the Energy
Department have in its files related to the FBI scandal? What would
Treasury have?

One answer lies in the story of Uranium One, which is the turd that
official Washington cannot seem to flush. This is the deal that sold off
uranium resources and companies to a Russian firm.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uranium_One"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Wiki page</a> is
interesting, because it reveals just how many people were involved in
this deal. Those people all seem to have connections to intelligence
services in the Anglosphere. These are the same intelligence services
that pressured Trump into holding off on releasing the classified
documents months ago.

Of course, what this means is the Russian collusion story was just an
effort to conceal the FBI spying scandal, which was an effort to cover a
lot of other corruption, especially the Uranium One deal. That’s the
item at the center of everything. That would explain why Treasury and
Energy are on the list. It would also explain why the FBI under James
Comey was so vexed by the Clinton e-mail scandal. Clinton was running a
pay-for-play operation out of the State Department and a lot of people
knew about it.

The question is why would everyone go along with it, but the history of
the Clinton family is the story of exploiting the ambition of minor
figures. The salary men in the FBI dream of getting to the top job, so
why not play ball with Clinton? The vermin-like rapacity of Hillary
Clinton is like something from a Faulkner novel. When it comes to
corruption, she is shred, ruthless and clever. The people in Washington,
however, are naive, sheltered and simple minded. They stand no chance
against Hillary.

Way back in the 1990’s, a truth obvious to many people was that the
Democrats, desperate to regain power, sold their souls to the Clintons.
They were willing to overlook their obscene corruption, as long as they
delivered. It’s turning out that the Clinton family was not just a
cancer on the party, but a cancer on American politics. Like the guy who
sold his soul to the devil, official Washington is now realizing it was
a horrible error to take the Clinton deal. Now they are at a loss as to
how to get out of it.

As an aside, the old WASP virtue of keeping low-class people out of
public life was not just about snobbery. It was an understanding that
people like the Clintons were like an invasive species among the upper
classes. High status people did not train their young to hair-split and
subvert the rules. They trained them to uphold the rules. As a result,
they could never compete with the sort of people who saw rules and
customs as an obstacle to their ambitions. Exclusion was a form of
self-defense.

Ultimately, political scandals are always about politics. The reason any
of this matters is it threatens the political order. On the one hand,
the Cloud People cannot tolerate a rogue intelligence community. On the
other hand, they can’t just open all of this to public view, as the
public will lose respect for the political order. That’s the war going
on now, between those trying to change the political order and those
seeking to defend it and their privileges within it. Trump now has a new
weapon in that war.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">please contribute here</a>.
