---
title: "The Will To Failure"
date: "2019-09-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18652"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18652"
---

A popular topic on the dissident right is the failure of Buckley-style
conservatism, often with an emphasis on the perfidy of particular
conservatives. The focus is on the people or particular political
events. For example, gay marriage is a popular example of how the
so-called conservatives failed to conserve anything. People like David
French are popular punching bags, as they are examples of the way in
which main stream conservatives spend their time currying favor with the
Left.

The underlying assumption is that conservative ideas are not the issue.
The issue is the perfidy of conservatives and their unwillingness to
fight for those ideas. Compounding it is the assumption that
conservatives are intellectuals, who know the material and have mastered
their arguments. It is just assumed that Buckley-style conservatism was
mostly right on the ideas and that their people were smart enough to
understand those ideas and argue for those ideas in the public square.

What is becoming increasingly clear is that conservatism, the Buckley
form that was once called the New Right, was never an intellectual
movement. Whatever the first movers of Buckley conservatism set-out to
do, their movement never rose above the personal and the political. It
was never an intellectual movement. Instead, it was a political
enterprise that decorated itself with the trappings of political theory,
history and philosophy. It was just a set of poses, masquerading as
ideas.

That comes through in [this very long
review](https://www.claremont.org/crb/article/sensibility-as-soulcraft/),
in the Claremont Review of Books, of George Will’s very long book on
conservatism. Early in the review, there is this quote from George Will.
“If there is no sense in which there is an eternal human nature, there
cannot be eternal principles—certainly no self-evident truths—of
political organization and action.” That is the type of line that will
strike the conservative reader as sensible, but it is complete nonsense.
It is pseudo-intellectual babble.

For starters, it is sloppy logic, the sort of thing that one would
expect from a freshman coed, not someone who fashions himself an
intellectual. There may be principles that are contingent upon human
nature, but he does not bother making that point. In fact, conservatives
never bother to connect human nature with the axioms of human
organization. Instead, it is broad assertions like that, which violate
Hume’s law. Taken together, that sentence is nothing more than wishful
thinking.

Human nature is the realm of biological truth, as in people desire sex,
social status and security from danger. These are true things about
humans everywhere humans can be found in nature. A principle is a rule
about how people ought to behave or how a society should organize
itself. These are found everywhere, as well. The thing is, one does not
follow the other, which is why rules of behavior vary widely among
humans. If there were eternal principles, they would show up everywhere.

Putting that aside, the assertion that there is an eternal human nature,
at least with regards to politics, which is Will’s focus, is absurd. If
that were true, human society would look pretty much the same
everywhere. It does not, which means there is a great deal of diversity
in man. While all people will share basic biological necessities, like
the need for food, shelter, sex and so on, how they organize themselves
to attain those things varies a great deal, owing to the natural
diversity of man.

In other words, human nature does not lead to eternal principles. It
eliminates the possibility of eternal principles. The morality of the
Bushman, with regards to how they distribute food or access to females,
will reflect their nature. In Siberia, where the people will have
different natures, they will have different principles. Sure, both have
rules against murder, but the principles they have created to deal with
this eternal part of human nature are completely different, owing to
their different nature.

That may seem like a quibble, but it is a good starting place when
examining the anti-intellectualism of conservatives like Will. The book
itself, as the reviewer later explains, is actually a rebuke of Will’s
past arguments about the nature of conservatism. In the past, Will
claimed to be a European conservative, which he was always careful to
define as Burkean, rather than those bad guys on the European Right. In
this book, he claims to have changed teams and become a Madisonian
conservative.

The problem with that is Burke and Madison are not two faces of opposing
views on human organization. Burke was certainly a critic of the bloody
radicalism of the French Revolution, but he was never an enemy of
American liberty. That’s because there was never anything all that
radical about the American Revolution. Someone familiar with the
material would have understood these differences, but that was never
really George Will or any of the so-called conservatives.

Amusingly, the one element of the American Revolution that could be
classified as radical was the Declaration. This is why Progressives have
made it the foundation of their thought and the basis of the second
founding theory. Will now embraces the Declaration as the cornerstone of
conservatism, while in the past he rejected it as a “highly charged
declaration of a political philosophy.” Will now calls it the most
important political document in human history. That’s quite a change.

This is, of course, a great example of what was always wrong with
conservatism. It was never an intellectual movement. Just as Will can
come to oppose what he formerly supported, swinging around to embrace
yesterday’s radicalism as today’s eternal principle, conservatism was
always ready to make the same journey. Buckley-style conservatism was
never an intellectual movement, it was a pose or what Will prefers to
call a sensibility. It was whatever fashion worked in the moment.

This is why there has never been much thought given as to why
conservatism, as a political project, was a total failure. They won
elections, but never won the resulting policy fights. A true
intellectual class would have compared theory to reality and noticed the
many contradictions. Even today, when so-called conservative
intellectuals convene to discuss the state of their racket, they just
end up quoting dead men and promising to do more of the same. It’s
nostalgia masquerading as introspection.

In a way, this was always true about Buckley conservatism. Even as a
purely political operation, it always functioned as a cargo cult. If
they could dress up as the Founders, repeat what they said, the spirit
and constitution of that generation would magically appear in this
generation. The Buckleyites could never understand that the America of
the Founding was a different country. They did things different back
then, because the people, their very nature, was different from modern
America.

This is why conservatism was a total failure. The Left, for all of its
faults, recognized that the America of the 20th century was nothing like
the America of the Founding. It needed a new political framework and a
new set of principles. The second founding idea was more than just a
recasting of history to include the new arrivals. It was an effort to
create a new foundation to support the new political orthodoxy. The
Buckleyites were never smart enough to get that and were no match for
the Left.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
