---
title: "High On Their Own Supply"
date: "2019-11-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19002"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19002"
---

A common misconception among the more cynical on this side of the great
divide is that the people running grifts like TP-USA are all in on the
grift. That the front men are just as aware of the con being worked as
the people who finance them. While that can be true, it is not always
true. In fact, in most cases the front man is a true believer, who
really believes the stuff he is preaching. That’s why the backers picked
him. They did not have to worry about him having a crisis of conscience.

That appears to be the case with Charlie Kirk, the deformed looking
fellow that is the front man for TP-USA, the synthetic grassroots
college group. After hooligans disrupted his college tour with difficult
questions, he has reportedly been threatening to quit the show, as he
was so distraught over what is happening. He was unprepared for anything
but an adoring audience of fellow believers. He expected his college
road show to be him evangelizing to fellow zealots. Instead he is being
mocked.

When you stop and think about it, it is easy to see that he is not a
cold, calculating schemer running a complex grift. For starters, he is
not that bright. That’s clear by how badly he has handled the questions
from the hooligans. Even a young con-man is quick on his feet when in a
jam. That’s what leads them into the grifter lifestyle. Kirk, on the
other hand, is completely unprepared for the push-back he is getting,
because he just assumed everyone in the crowd believed the same nonsense
he believes.

In fairness to Kirk, he is not alone in believing nonsense. The Bush
years are a great example of how you can fool most of the people for
just a little while, if you give them a reason to feel they are
sacrificing for a larger goal. The flag waving and talk of spreading
democracy to the barbarians was powerful magic. For people in a fading
empire, with an uncertain demographic future, a moral war to make the
world right again was a beautiful reprieve from their daily reality.

Now, there are cynical grifters in these scams. Dan Crenshaw, the
congressman from Texas, is a great example. Like John McCain, he as
figured out how to wrap himself in the flag, while peddling the nonsense
paid for by the usual suspects. He’s running around trying to convince
young white men to throw their life away on pointless wars in the Middle
East, while telling them <a
href="https://www.mrctv.org/videos/dan-crenshaw-assume-people-will-vote-according-race-itself-racist"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the future is going to be
brown</a>. If one wanted to conjure a modern example of pure evil,
Pirate Dan is a good start.

In many ways, these Potemkin movements ginned up by the usual suspects
mirror what is done in the pop music business. The sharps who have run
that business since the inception, are always fishing for a new act.
When they find one, they flood the market with copies until the public
losses interest. Then it is onto the next act. Meanwhile, the boys and
girls trying to become pop starts are sure they are getting noticed
because they have talent. The carny folk prey on those wishing to be
stars.

The difference between what is happening with the political hucksters
and the entertainment rackets is there is no feedback loop. Music
producers have to move product. Movie makers have to sell tickets. The
political theater generally lacks such immediate returns. Both sides of
the ruling class can rig the venues and seed the audience with fellow
grifters, thus having the effect of being popular. Eventually, the
people running these scams start to fall for their own con.

That may be what we are seeing with TP-USA. The same sorts backing this
racket successfully made that ridiculous hobbit Ben Shapiro a star. They
even made the odious Dinesh D’Souza a star in the last election cycle.
Of course, they were able to quickly turn the Tea party into a racket.
Running these scams has been so easy for so long, they got sloppy. They
made the mistake of getting high off their own supply and started making
mistakes. The result is the ongoing debacle of TP-USA.

The lesson though is that humans are built to believe. It is a part of
our nature that is probably the oldest part of our nature. Belief
probably co-evolved with language as a way to allow us to share complex
thought and abstract concepts. While modern Americans may have stopped
participating on traditional religion, that desire to be a part of a
shared belief is still there. People will believe in something. The
question is what will they believe and to what purpose will those
beliefs point them.

The alternative to the cynical nonsense from the usual suspects is not
just a rebuttal of their assertions. It is also an alternative set of
beliefs, which in the simplest sense is an alternative vision of the
future. “This is who we are and this what we do, because this is the
future we want for our posterity” is what holds a people together.
Politics is not an argument about the present, but the future. Offer a
more promising vision of the future and people will come to believe they
can achieve it.

That’s really what these scams are about, when you examine them. They
keep conjuring one fake youth movement after another so the young don’t
start thinking about a better future than what is on offer. If young
whites suddenly stop believing in consumerism, they will believe in and
fight for something else. If they stop thinking brown is beautiful, not
only is Pirate Dan out of a job, demographic replacement becomes a
rallying point around which to oppose the ruling class.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
