---
title: "The Collapse Of Authority"
date: "2019-09-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18598"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18598"
---

The cancer eating away at the modern West is a lack of authority to
which people can point to judge public policy, public debate on those
polices, as well as the reactions to those policies and debates. As a
result, debate has degraded into various camps striking poses, usually
by signaling their unhappiness with the pose of other camps in the
public sphere. The lack of an agreed upon authority means there is no
way to judge the merits of any claim. Instead, it leaves force to
resolve disputes.

A good recent example is the neocon opposition to Trump. These people
are entirely defined by their hysterical reaction to Trump. There is no
substantive issue around which they base their opposition. They are not
pointing to ideological authority, tradition or even rules within the
party. Their opposition to Trump rests on no authority other than their
emotional reaction. That’s not an appeal to authority. It is a tantrum,
the sort of thing you expect from toddlers. It is also the norm in the
public space.

Now, there are two types of authority. One rises from objective
knowledge accumulated over time about the natural world. An authority on
engineering is someone, who has been trained as an engineer. His
credentials are determined by meeting a set of objective criteria, like
engineering exams, but also by remaining in good standing with other
engineers. The same is true of all areas of expertise. These are the
authorities on what is or what is not empirically true about their area
of expertise.

In this regard, the West is in surplus. No matter the specialty, you can
find someone who knows the material and can explain what is known about
the topic. If you have an interest in statistics, you can find books
written for every level of reader. You can find on-line courses covering
just about any bit of knowledge you seek. If you have a desire to read
Homer in the original, you can take [on-line
courses](https://liberalarts.utexas.edu/lrc/resources/eieol.php) in
ancient Greek. When it comes to what is factually true about the world,
we have a surplus.

Where there is a shortage is in the area of what *ought* to be. What is
true in the world is a very different thing than what ought to be true.
What is true does not rely on a human authority to make it true. It does
not need a supernatural authority to validate it. Two plus two will
always be four as long as the universe exists. What ought to be true,
however, relies on people, either as the authority or the voice of
authority. This is the basis of moral codes, hierarchy, dissent and the
collective action of society.

For most of Western history, religion was the authority upon which
society relied to determine what ought to be. In the early Middle Ages,
there was a great debate about the nature of that authority. That
finally was settled and the Catholic Church was the worldly
manifestation of that authority. After the Reformation, that authority
was eroded, but replaced with Scripture as the source of authority. The
story of the West, until the Industrial Age, was the story of Christian
authority over man.

Of course, Christianity is a relatively new thing, so there have been
other sources of authority in the West. The authority of blood is a
universal. The great men of a people rise to the top of society. Their
descendants, having inherited their great qualities, are assumed to be a
source of authority. The king may not have done anything other than be
born to the right father, but he has the magic blood. If it turns out
that it did not take or the magic has lost its power, someone new must
come along.

That’s where tradition fills in the gaps. The king’s heir may be less
than the king, but the institutions that rose up around the king are now
invested with authority. The reason the heir should be king, the reason
he and no one else ought to have final authority, is this is how it has
always been done. Tradition is probably the most powerful source of
authority, as it assumes the *is*, as well as the *ought*. The custom,
through trial and error, *is* proven to be the best, so it *ought* to be
maintained.

In the current age, normal religion has been sidelined, not only as a
source of authority, but as a legitimate part of public discourse. Fifty
years ago, a public discussion of morality would have had
representatives of various faiths to discuss what ought to be according
their religions. A century ago those representatives would have provided
authority for the current morality. Today, no public debate about moral
issues, about what ought to be, includes religion, much less priests or
theologians.

Tradition, of course, is by default eliminated from consideration. Much
of what is passed off as public discourse is really a debate about how
best to tear down the remaining traditions of society. The entirety of
Progressive thought can be symbolized by the toppling over of statues on
the college campus. The only thing they insist ought to be true is that
truth itself must be overturned. Progressive morality, such as it is, is
both the negation of moral truth and the denial of objective reality.

A world without authority, especially an agreed upon authority, is
anarchy, but humans naturally retreat from anarchy. This is because
anarchism is just mob rule. The ideal of anarchism is the mob mutually
and magically agreeing to not murder one another, while the reality of
it is the mob demanding authority to bring order. It is why democracy,
which is just mob rule, is always a transition state. It is the period
between the respect for natural, hierarchical authority and
authoritarianism.

An example of this from history is the slow collapse of the Western
Roman Empire, first into constant warfare, then into chaos and finally
into the anarchy of local authority in the early medieval period. The
end of the republic was not the end of a natural authority in Rome. The
rulers still had to respect the gods and traditions. It is when those
sources of authority collapsed that the end was clear for the Empire.
The subsequent rise of the West was the rise of authority, Christian
authority.

The modern West is undergoing the same sort of collapse of authority.
Christianity, like the pagan faiths of the ancient world, has receded to
the fringe. Tradition and hierarchy has given way to mob rule and force.
What’s missing from the analogy is a new religion that provides a
coherent order to the gathering chaos. Progressivism is an
anti-religion, in that does not provide order to the natural world.
Instead it preaches a denial of order and the denial of reason. It’s a
primitive revolt against the natural order.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
