---
title: "Thoughts On Civil War"
date: "2019-09-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18670"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18670"
---

A prevailing assumption in all of outsider politics, both Left and
Right, is that America is headed for a civil war. The details are not
all that clear, but that is the assumption. Even the mainstream
political types think it is possible. A regular part of Tucker Carlson’s
act is to warn his fellow political elites that they better shape up or
the else. From time to time [polls are
done](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/washington-secrets/georgetown-u-nation-at-edge-of-civil-war-but-voters-reject-compromise)
that show Americans are increasingly sure that a civil war is the most
probable outcome for the turmoil and conflict of the current year.

At first blush, it is not a silly assumption. After all, empires tend to
end in violence, either they are conquered or break apart. Even if you
think America is some sort of exception when it comes to being an
empire, every society is racked with conflict. It has been over 150
years since the United States has had serious internal distension. The
closest to a revolt was the Civil Rights Movement, but the blacks were
easily bought off after some protests and riots. America seems due for a
violent adjustment.

Further, the far Left assumes they will win such a conflict. How is
never explained, as most are noodle armed sissies, but they probably
think they will have the full support of the police, like they see at
their protests. Maybe the cops will side with the far Left in an armed
conflict. If it means keeping their pensions and benefit packages,
that’s probably a safe bet. On the other hand, history says police
forces tend to scatter quickly when order falters to the point where
there is fighting in the streets.

Many on the far Right make the same assumption as the Left, with regards
to the outcome, owing to the fact that most of the guns are owned by
whites. Those noodle armed Antifa sissies and their mouthy women would
not last long in a fair fight, much less an armed fight. That’s
certainly true, but if they did have the cops fighting for them that
would be different. Then there is the fact that the same people
controlling Antifa also run the military, so the gun disparity would
change quickly.

The main trouble with the civic war bogeyman is no one bothers to
imagine how it would be conjured in the first place. Civil wars are
fights between two or more factions, led by members of the elite. The
American Civil War was a fight between New England elites and Southern
elites. Modern elites, not just in America, but across the West are in
lockstep on every important topic. It is inconceivable that they would
take up arms against one another. If anything, they will take up arms
against the people.

That leaves open the other option for a social war. An armed rebellion
of some sort, maybe due to divisions within society that the elites can
no longer contain. The Antifa media, for example, harasses the wrong
people and the result is organized white terrorism against Progressive
targets. Alternatively, the media agitation results in some left-wing
street protesters moving from theater to violence. The media did
convince that guy to shoot up the Republican softball game a few years
back.

The trouble with the rebellion scenario is that a decent rebellion has
to be led by people capable of organizing a lot of people. The structure
of the Left precludes a rebellion from that side of politics. They
control the institutions and the rank and file lack the will and
brainpower to go it alone. The Left is not going to revolt against
itself, so they will continue to ratchet up their terrorism against
everyone else. Red flag laws, for example, will be used to jail
dissidents in the near future.

Outside of left-wing circles, organizing a rebellion seems less likely.
Blacks like to riot and they have some reason to rebel against the
prevailing order. History says they will just burn down their own
neighborhoods and loots some local stores. Hispanics seem to be the most
passive group in America. As long as they have cheap food and cheap
entertainment, they are not rebelling. The squalor of America beats the
squalor of back home, so getting them angry enough to rebel seems
implausible.

If there is to be a rebellion, it will be among whites, but whites are
far from being a monolithic group like blacks. There are regional
divides, as well as class divides, which are easily exploited by the
people in charge. Ruling class whites, for example, hate all lower class
whites. That’s part of what motivated the FBI to spy on the Trump people
in the last election. It’s why the IRS harassed white people in the 2012
election. Ruling class whites have a deep loathing for the rest of white
America.

At the other end, the working classes have had plenty of reasons to
revolt since the 1970’s, when the usual suspects began auctioning off
the manufacturing base. In coal country, for example, where you will
find the most rebellious whites in America, an all-out war on their way
of life has not resulted in much resistance. The semi-urban white
working class has continued to support a system that shows every sign of
trying to snuff out the white working class. There’s no rebellion in
that group.

That leaves the white suburban middle-class, who are certainly the
angriest cohort in the country, but they are the most docile too.
Perhaps if they fear a real threat to their economic position, they will
become less docile, but middle-class revolution remains an oxymoron at
this stage. For now, they will remain committed to the system, taking
out their anger on politicians at the ballot box. Even though voting has
had no impact on the trajectory of American society, it seems to be
enough for this class.

Even if you can conjure a scenario in which a group revolts or the
ruling class splits, resulting in a civil war of some type, it’s hard to
imagine it being violent. For starters, rebelling against the local
police department, much less the military is laughably implausible,
given the disparity in firepower. Even small town cops these days have
been militarized. They have assault units, armored vehicles, drones and
electronic surveillance equipment. America is literally a police state
now.

Rebellion would have to be guerrilla war, turning the weight of the
surveillance state against itself. Instead of blowing stuff up, the
rebellion of the future will be placing racist material in strategic
locations, forcing the police to spend hundreds of man hours looking for
invisible Nazis. More sophisticated tactics will require infiltration of
ruling class assets, so rebels can easily and surreptitiously throw sand
in the gears of the custodial state. The war will be fought in cubicles,
not the streets.

Now, this may seem depressing at first blush, but civil wars and
rebellion never encompass the whole of the society. The American
Revolution directly involved about five percent of the population. The
American Left radicalized the country with less than 20% support among
whites. For those hoping to see the next American civil war, it will not
take much of a change in the above dynamics to get the conditions for
it. A serious economic catastrophe or a major foreign policy setback
could be enough.

There’s also the fact that the nature of rebellion changes with the
times. The rebels of the agrarian age faced men with bayonets and
muskets. Men with muskets and rifles hiding in the woods could do real
damage to their rulers. In the industrial age, general strikes and urban
riots were enough to counter state power. In the information age, the
rebellion will be about sapping the strength of the rulers, with regards
to their ability to control data. Unplugging a data center will be the
new terrorism.

When you start to puzzle through it, the probability of an old
fashioned civil war is close to zero, while armed rebellion is in the
single digits. Things will have to change a lot for the conditions to be
right. On the other hand, a new type of rebellion, one suited for the
age and the sorts of people unhappy with the system, is increasingly
likely. Middle-class mom giving company passwords to rebel hackers is a
likely scenario. The revolution of the future will be low-grade and
mostly non-violent.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
