---
title: "Free Will"
date: "2019-02-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16433"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16433"
---

Early humans, as best we can know, did not have a conception of free
will, at least not in the way modern people think of it. Instead, they
assumed the gods controlled the destiny of man, often directly
interfering in the lives of people. What appeared to be your choice was
really just part of a bigger narrative that had been written by others.
This is why it was possible for fortune tellers to exist. After all, if
the future is not written, then how could anyone divine the future?
Obviously, the future was already written.

The funny thing about these early notions of destiny is they did not
exempt people from punishment for wrongdoing. The thief was still
punished, which does not make a lot of sense if his destiny was
determined by the gods. Of course, the remedy here is to conclude that
his destiny is to be executed and the destiny of the executioner is to
be the one who punishes the thief. Even so, it suggests that people have
always accepted some degree of free will, even in the age when people
believed in gods controlling destiny.

The Greeks, of course, were the first to think about free will. They
sort of crept up on the idea by first suggesting the natural world
operated by fixed rules. A Greek philosopher named Anaximander proposed
that there were ideal laws that governed material phenomenon in the
physical world. The famous line from Heraclitus that “you can’t step
twice into the same river” did not mean that the world was random. He
meant that world is in constant flux, but the changes observed in nature
follow a fixed set of laws.

It was not until a generation after Aristotle that the Greeks moved from
the position where a set of laws controlled the physical world to a
position where the atoms flowing through the void could suddenly swerve
from their determined path. This ability of the physical world to
deviate from the determined path meant that people could swerve from
their determined path. Eventually, this chain of reasoning arrived at
the conclusion that people could act from something other than chance or
necessity. That is free will.

The concept of free will has been essential to Western thought since the
Greeks and it is an essential element of Christianity. You cannot have
sin without free will and you cannot have communion without free will.
People have to possess the ability to transcend chance and necessity in
order to be held responsible for their actions. This is the fundamental
assumption of Western society. Everything from civic morality to
political organization is based on the belief that humans possess and
exercise free will.

As is true of many things in this age, science is starting to question
that old notion of free will. Genetics is revealing that our genetic
code controls more than just our physical appearance. Our cognitive
abilities are also controlled by our genes. Just as we cannot choose to
be taller or be of another race, we cannot choose to be smarter or more
patient or more prudent. It is not just the larger aspects of our
personality that are fixed by our genetics code. Everything about us is
written in our DNA.

People can accept something like intelligence being genetic. That is
something we begin to notice as children. When it comes to something
like patience, for example, that is where it gets more difficult to
accept. It seems like you should be able to change that. The same is
true of something like prudence. It seems like as we get older, we
become more prudent, more cautious about our actions. The mounds of
self-help books all depend on the ability of people to alter these sorts
of aspects of their personality.

Even though researchers are just scratching the surface with regards to
the genetic causes of human cognitive traits, there are people ready to
say free will is a myth. The HBD blogger
[Jayman](https://jaymans.wordpress.com/2013/09/25/no-you-dont-have-free-will-and-this-is-why/) argues
that your choices cannot be “free” if they are so easily predicted by
behavioral genetics. If we can predict behavior statistically and all
human behavioral traits are heritable, it follows that what you think is
free choice, is really just the complex execution of your code in
response to external variables.

Again, the science of behavior genetics is just scratching the surface,
but the data thus far certainly suggests this is correct. It is
certainly more complicated than what Hollywood imagines, but science
says everything about us is in our code. There is probably not a
criminal gene or a bad-with-girls gene, but there are a series of traits
that influence these measurable qualities in positive and negative
directions. Where you are on the spectrum of these cognitive traits is
determined by your code.

Most people will find that rather monstrous, because of the
implications. The most obvious is that genetic determinism rules out
morality. People cannot be rewarded or punished, unless they can
transcend chance and necessity. If their choices are simply the result
of their code executing in response to environmental factors, they have
no agency and therefore no responsibility. This also means there can be
no such thing as sin, unless you believe God creates people coded to
sin. The same is true of piety.

On the other hand, people with a background in math will know that not
all algorithms produce a single result. A simple formula like f (x) = x²
has the set of all positive integers for all possible values of x. Even
though the result must always be positive, there is a *qualitative*
difference between three and a billion and three. Something similar may
be true about human genetic code. The possible result set is large
enough to present a qualitative difference that is important to how we
evaluate those results.

In other words, our code may make us like ice cream, but the range of
ways that urge could express in our daily life is between murdering
someone for ice cream and simply having some after dinner. Another bit
of code, let us call it the free will algorithm, controls how these
cognitive traits express, based on the inputs from society. Just as
random number generation is not actually random, but can be treated as
such, the free will algorithm is not actually free will but can be
treated as such.

This notion of free will is certainly something that has evolved. Your
pets do not have a concept of free will. This is a unique human trait.
That means it may have arisen by chance, but it has a very important
purpose. Rewarding and punishing people for their behavior must be
essential to what defines us as people. Perhaps just as genes can arise
from mutation, the replication process swerves from the path, our
actions can also swerve from the path, based on some unknown capacity to
choose.
