---
title: "The High Cost Of Low Trust"
date: "2019-06-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17938"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17938"
---

Legend has it, that when the Persians were conquering Asia Minor, the
great king Cyrus was warned that the Greeks were dangerous adversaries.
He supposedly laughed this off as the Greeks, in his mind, were a people
who lied to one another. A people who could not tell truth from fiction
could not possibly stand up to the Persians. What he was referring to
was the Greek market place, where commerce was conducted between buyers
and sellers haggling over price. This was an alien concept to the
Persians.

Like most anecdotes handed down to us, especially those from the long
ago past, this is probably apocryphal. Herodotus, the main source of
information about the Persians, was as much a story teller as a
historian. Even so, we know the Persians considered lying and owing a
debt to be the worst sins. Lying could get a person executed, if the
person being told the lie was of high status. It was not that lying to a
person of high status was particularly wrong. It was that the high
status person had the power to punish the liar.

Naturally, the Persians would have looked at the Greek culture as deeply
immoral, as it was based on dishonesty. After all, persuasion is a form
of lying and democracy is about persuading people, not arriving at the
truth. The marketplace is where buyers and sellers seek advantage over
one another. The seller exaggerates the quality of his goods and the
buyer tries to play sellers off one another to get a bargain. Not only
is there no advantage to truth telling, there can be great rewards for
skillful dishonesty.

Whether or not Cyrus said what is claimed is unimportant. It is an
important insight into a fundamental flaw of both democracy and the
marketplace. Public debate is not a search for truth, but a search for a
way to convince a majority of the public. Similarly, the market is not a
search for the true value of a good or service. It is the search for the
bigger share of a financial transaction. Inevitably such systems reward
the people who are good at gaining the trust of their fellow citizens in
order to deceive them.

This truth about the marketplace, be it the political market or the
market for goods and services, is not an argument against it. Any form
of human organization is going to involve trade-offs. Further, men are
not angels, so all social systems will be susceptible to
corruption. Knowing this about democracy, for example, is why the
Founders tried to construct a system that would restrain democracy.
Similarly, the economic reforms a century ago were intended to put
limits on the marketplace.

In the present age, this institutional dishonesty is most obvious in
politics, where the parties are now completely dominated by sociopaths.
A system that is supposedly built on respect for the public will is now
run by people who hold the people in contempt. They take pleasure in
lying to their most important voters. It’s not just the Right, the Left
does the same thing, only with more skill. Elizabeth Warren will run as
an opponent of big business, but in office she will be entirely beholden
to global corporate interests.

What compounds this problem in democracy is the people are conditioned
to think it is normal and healthy to be ruled by sociopaths. Politics
becomes the inverse of what people expect in their daily lives. Among
your friends and acquaintances, you expect a high degree of trust and
honestly. In politics, you have been trained to demand the most extreme
forms of lying. If a politician makes the mistake of uttering the truth,
he is hooted off the stage. Democracy makes the people an enemy of
themselves.

Something similar happens in the marketplace. It used to be that the
cost and profit of an item was reflected in the price. When costs went
up, the price went up. If the seller was a bit greedy, the price would
reflect it. Today, when costs go up, the seller quietly shrinks the
product. The greed of the seller results in larger packages that
disguise the shrinking product inside. It used to be a pint was a pound
the world around, but now it is closer to
<a href="http://digg.com/video/applebees-large-beer"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">thirteen ounces</a>, but it
depends up the seller and time of day.

As with democracy, the real crime with these deceptive practices in the
marketplace is it normalizes dishonestly. Whenever the topic of
“shrinkflation” comes up, people have been trained to laugh at the
person questioning it. “That’s just clever marketing” we are told, as if
it is naive and childlike to question systemic fraud. The result is the
virtues of the marketplace get turned on their head. Instead of
competition producing the best product, competition produces the most
accomplished liars.

None of this is an argument against self-government or commerce. It’s
that free markets and self-government are not ends in themselves, but a
means to an end. The point of human organization is the spiritual and
material prosperity of the people. The form of government and the
economic arrangements are about the welfare of the people, not some
theoretical ideal. If defending democracy means defending rule by
sociopath, maybe democracy, at least the extreme form, is not a great
idea.

Similarly, if free markets result in the people being terrorized by
global technology giants, maybe a little less economic freedom, in order
to reign in these companies, is a good trade-off. After all, the point
of economic order is not to achieve private tyranny in defense of a
theory. The point of economic order is to benefit the people,
collectively and individually. If it requires <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/24/upshot/health-care-price-transparency-trump.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">government regulation</a> to
have prices on goods and services that indicate the real value of the
items, that’s not a terrible trade-off.

For just five dollars a month you can help feed a starving dissident in
Lagos. That’s less than the price of a craft beer or a coffee at
Starbucks.  <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">Five bucks a month</a> is not a lot to ask to
feed a dissident. Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your
money to destroy your family and community. Or, you can send money to me
at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have
a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer">PayPal</a> setup for those who prefer that
method to donate. Thank you for your support!
