---
title: "Travelogue: Gatekeeper’s Ball I"
date: "2019-07-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18104"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18104"
---

Having self-medicated the previous night, I approached the prospect of a
full day of lectures on civic nationalism with some dread. I did myself
a favor and skipped the first speaker, but I arrived in time to hear
David Brog deliver a long sermon on the glories of immigration and how
immigrants made America. It was 200 proof immigration romanticism spiced
up with some personal anecdotes about his Jewish grandfather’s journey
to America and how much he loved his adopted country.

Of course, he sprinkled his sermon with more reminders about how racism
is the worst and there is no place for it in national conservatism. I
suspect all speakers were told to do this, so that the media would
record it. I counted fifty people at the media tables. Maybe the plan is
to keep repeating the bit about racism until some of them will repeat
it. Then again, this national conservative thing is shaping up to look
like Mitt Romney style conservatism, so maybe these guys really believe
this stuff…

The next speaker was a woman calling herself Mary Eberstadt. Her speech
was garden variety civic nationalism. She made it clear that this new
brand of nationalism is open to everyone. She did not throw a tantrum
about racism, as has been the case with most of the speakers, but she
made it clear that America is for everyone as long as they agree on the
rules. The main difference between what we have now and what she
proposes is the new thing is called nationalism…

The final speaker of the morning session was Yoram Hazony. It was an
interesting performance to behold. He started out criticizing
neoconservatives, making the absurd claim that the current crop of
neocons are not the real neocons. They have strayed from the original
into imperialism. Then he let it be known that one of the sponsors for
this show was *The Public Interest*, a neocon quarterly founded by
Irving Kristol. The fact that he said this without laughing was quite
remarkable.

He then moved onto libertarianism. It’s interesting to hear these guys
criticize libertarianism, because they don’t really know why they oppose
it. They just associate it with the cultural decline, so they assume it
is the cause. There’s also a reactionary vibe to their fight with the
libertarians. These new nationalists don’t like the libertarians,
because libertarians oppose nationalism. For their purposes, maybe
that’s enough to dismiss the economic arguments against their brand of
nationalism.

The third part of his speech was a trade about white nationalism. He
fumbled around trying to say something about biological reality, but
that made him sound like a nut from the flat earth society. Then he
warned about the threat of white nationalism, especially among young
people. Then he made the claim that there is no such thing as tribal
loyalty, which is an odd thing, given that he claims a nation is a
collection of tribes. As in his book, it’s clear he terrifies himself
when he follows his logic to its conclusion.

I said to my minder after the speech that I enjoyed the speech much
better when Paul Gottfried gave it in 1985. That’s really what this new
nationalism is, when you clear away the wacky Christian Zionist stuff
and the virtue signaling. This is just good old fashioned
paleo-conservationism, stripped of its intellectual underpinnings.
Instead of biology forming the foundation of nationalism, it is this
magical connection between people that forms when people are in the same
vicinity…

I nearly bust out laughing at one point in Harzony’s speech. He was
flapping his arms about the evils of biological realism, talking about
how evil race realists like me are dangerous because we know a lot about
the human sciences. He made the claim that race realists were
delusional. As proof he talked about how people love dogs and soldiers
build strong bonds. At one point, I thought he was going to claim trench
socialism was proof that kinship is an optical illusion. The whole thing
was bonkers…

The keynote speaker for the lunchtime crowd was Tucker Carlson, who was
treated like a rock star. He gave a fun talk that was not really a
speech about anything, more like a string of loosely connected anecdotes
and observations. Carlson claims he does not consume much of anything
on-line, but he certainly sounds a like a guy familiar with what gets
posted on dissident sites. He did a riff on the opposite rule of
liberalism that sounded a lot like [this
post](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=561) from years back. Maybe it is
just a coincidence…

The funny thing about this event is not a single person has bothered to
mention that conservatism, whether neocon or Buckley, managed to
conserve nothing. Further, they don’t put any thought into why it
failed. They just seem to think if they can go back and do it all over
again, the results will be different somehow. Not only is that
impossible, it fails to address the internal defects of conservatism.
The reason we are at this place, is the so-called conservatives chose to
embrace Progressive morality….

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
