---
title: "The Great Cover Up"
date: "2019-12-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19417"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19417"
---

Joe diGenova has been talking about the seditious plot to overturn the
2016 election for at least a year, maybe longer. Unlike a lot of the
people commenting on this in the mass media, he is not using it to sell
books or boost his cable career. He also knows how the FBI and DOJ works
from a practical matter. Being knowledgeable makes him a rare guy in the
commentariat. Most of the people brought on as experts for the cable
chat shows know very little about their alleged areas of expertise.

Regardless, he has been one of the most hawkish people on the Barr
investigation, claiming that it is a real investigation with real
criminal targets. In
<a href="https://youtu.be/BpTvjkTsaCQ" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this recent radio interview</a> he goes into the details
of both the Barr investigation and the ongoing impeachment fiasco. He is
a Trump partisan, so his opinions on impeachment are predictable, but
his thoughts on the conspiracy are interesting. He probably has access
to information from the Trump White House.

The interesting thing about all of this is just how widespread the
conspiracy was during the 2015-2016 period. In that interview he talks
about former NSA Director Admiral Mike Rogers, who is allegedly
cooperating with Barr and Durham. What makes the Rogers issue
interesting is that he was the original whistle-blower. He is not
treated as such, because the media hates Trump and anyone associated
with him, but Rogers was the guy who blew the whistle on the spying to
the Trump people.

What’s also interesting about Rogers is he seems to have been a good
guy, who decided to put an end to the shenanigans with regards to access
to top-secret data by FBI contractors. He closed off their access at
some point in 2016, which put him in bad odor with the Obama
administration. He was eventually pushed out, which suggests the
conspiracy has roots into the Obama inner-circle. That may explain why
the easy cases to be made against the FBI conspirators are on hold.

That’s the other thing about the Rogers case. As <a
href="https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2019/12/23/joe-digenova-discusses-possibilities-from-former-nsa-director-mike-rogers-working-with-u-s-attorney-john-durham/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">CTH explains in that post</a>,
his addition to the story reveals that the use of the NSA database by
political contractors working for the Democrats goes back to at least
2012. It is an axiom of white-collar crime that the practice always goes
back much further than the evidence initially reveals. Anyone who has
done forensic accounting knows this. You find the first evidence of a
crime, but it turns out that the pattern goes back much further.

That may be what lies beneath all of this. The great puzzle thus far has
been the lack of prosecutions, despite ample evidence. The FBI agents
are all guilty of crimes that have been detailed in public documents and
the IG reports. There is now proof that Comey perjured himself many
times. Just from a public relations perspective alone, rounding up these
guys and charging them with corruption seems like a no-brainer. Almost a
year into his tenure and Barr has charged no one with a crime.

One obvious explanation is that Barr is running a long con on Trump and
the rest of the country, on behalf of the inner party. Robert Mueller
was supposed to use his investigation to hoover up all the data so it
could not be made public, in addition to harassing the Trump White
House. His incompetence meant Barr took over the job and is now
hoovering up all the information on the various parties. That way,
everyone has an excuse for not doing anything about plot.

One bit of evidence in support of this is the handling of the James
Wolfe issue. He was the Senate staffer caught leaking classified
information to one of the prostitutes hired by the Washington Post. Big
media hires good looking young women to sleep with flunkies like Wolf in
order to get access to information. Wolf was caught and charged, but
instead of getting a couple years in jail, <a
href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/former-senate-intel-gatekeeper-james-wolfe-sentenced-to-two-months"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">he got two months</a>. He will
come out and land into a six-figure job as a reward for being a good
soldier.

An alternative explanation is that what started as a straight forward
political corruption case bumped into a long pattern of behavior. In the
course of investigating that pattern, the trail went much further back
than the 2016 election. If there is evidence of abuse going back to
2012, maybe it goes back further. It was the Bush people, after all, who
pushed for the creation of secret courts and secret warrants. Maybe Dick
Cheney was listening to your phone calls after all.

It is not just the linear aspect of this. The sheer number of people
involved in just the FBI scandal is phenomenal. There are at least 20
FBI people named and dozens of bit players in the media and DOJ. So far,
the “contractors” with access to the NSA database have not been
revealed, but that could be hundreds of people, given that it seems to
have been a free-for-all. The corruption may not only go back a long
time, but cover a wide swath of official Washington.

That may be the answer to the great cover up. That’s what we are seeing.
This is a great cover up of the biggest scandal in American history. To
date, no one has been charged with a crime, despite hundreds of crimes
being documented. Many of the principals are now enjoying high six
figure lives, based on the fact they were part of the seditious plot to
overturn the 2016 election. Instead of the scandal of the century, it is
the celebration of the century for the inner party.

One of the signs of ruling class collapse is when they can no longer
enforce the rules that maintain them as a ruling class. When the Romans
started making exceptions to republican governance, it was a matter of
time before someone simply decided the rules no longer applied to them.
Perhaps the robot historians will consider Obama our Marius or Sulla.
Maybe that person is in the near future. Either way, the rule of law is
over and what comes next is the rule of men.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
