---
title: "The un-Americans"
date: "2019-08-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18363"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18363"
---

A popular argument from the Judeo-Christians, mostly in response to
people like Ilhan Omar and other anti-Israel advocates, is that one
cannot be anti-Israel without also being anti-Semitic. Now, in this
context, “Judeo-Christian” applies to the Jewish pundits, who are
primarily pro-Israel, but have an exclusively Christian audience. People
like Ben Shapiro and Dennis Prager. Both of whom are tireless advocates
for Israel and promiscuously use the phrase “Judeo-Christian” in their
arguments.

Their claim works as follows. It’s not that being anti-Zionist is just a
ploy by the anti-Semites. It’s that the very nature of Jewishness is
tangled up in the existence of Israel, which transcends the current
state of Israel. According to their argument, Israel the idea, as well
as the country, is what defines Jewishness. To oppose Israel, especially
its right to exist, is to oppose that which makes being a Jew possible.
Therefore, opposing Israel, by definition, makes that person an
anti-Semite.

It is a curious argument, when you examine the implications. There is no
doubt that Israel the concept is an inextricable part of Jewish
identity. Anyone who has watched the move The Ten Commandments gets
that. The Judeo-Christians, however, take this further and move beyond
the concept of Israel to the physical country itself. It is hard to know
if this is something Jews accept, but we do have example of Jews that
have opposed Zionism, so some Jews oppose some aspects of Israel.

Let’s just assume, for the sake of argument, that Prager and Shapiro are
right about this and Israel and Jews are one in the same. The first
conclusion, the most obvious one, is that Israel is an ethno-state.
Sure, anyone can become a Jew, but that is like saying anyone can become
a physicist. It may be true in theory, but in reality the conversion
rate to Judaism rounds to zero. Jewish law requires the rabbi to
strongly discourage gentiles from converting to Judaism.

The other conclusion from the Shapiro-Prager argument is that Jews are,
by nature, primarily loyal to Israel. For a Jew to oppose the very
essence of what makes him a Jew is an unsolvable paradox. In order to be
authentically Jewish, a Jew has to adhere to that which makes one
Jewish. If loyalty to Israel comes before everything else, that means
all diaspora Jews are guests. They can and do work with their hosts, but
in the end, their first loyalty has to be to Israel and the Jewish
people.

This is, the argument Hazony makes in his book
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18094"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Virtue of Nationalism</a>.
He does not apply it to Jews in the diaspora, but that is the
implication. If Jews are a nation, then the primary loyalty of all Jews
must be to that nation. He tries to run the “anyone can be a Jews” line
through his argument, but that would invalidate all of his claims about
Zionism, so it must be decoration. The implication here is clear. Jews
are a nation, spread out around the world, but their ancestral land is
Israel.

Another implication of this link between anti-Zionism and antisemitism
is that Ben Shapiro is lying when he says ideology trumps race. After
all, if Zionism is just another ideological viewpoint, then so is
anti-Zionism. Yet, Shapiro insists that being opposed to Zionism immoral
on its face. The only way that can be true is if Zionism is based in
biology, rather than ideology. Therefore, opposing Zionism is the same
as racism, which means that Shapiro thinks race transcends ideology
after all.

A possible way around this problem of Jews being a guest population is
the claim that America is the new Israel or an extension of Israel. This
is something that sells to the Christian Zionists and solves the problem
of loyalties. America, according to this theory, is a both a defender of
Israel and a staging ground for Jews who will one day return home during
the ingathering of the Jewish diaspora. Aliya, the return to Israel, is
a core idea of Zionism and it is included in Israel’s <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Declaration_of_Independence_(Israel)"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Scroll of Independence</a>.

This has appeal to Christian Zionists in America, who believe that the
gathering of the diaspora in Israel is in accordance with Bible prophecy
and a prerequisite for the Second Coming of Jesus. <a
href="https://religionandpolitics.org/2018/05/09/whats-so-american-about-christian-zionism/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Christian Zionism</a> has its
roots in the 17th century America with the Puritans. It turns up in the
18th century and especially the 19th century with the abolitionists, so
it has a long history in America. As a result, there is a large audience
for this form of Zionism among American Christians.

The problem with this line of reasoning is that it means America is not
really a nation or even a country. It’s just a temporary staging area.
Loyalty to America, therefore, is contingent on American policy toward
Israel. That is as un-American as you can get, as it denies the very
existence of America as a country, much less a nation. Even here, the
end result of the Judeo-Christian model is one where the Zionist can
have no loyalty to America, as America does not exists, outside its role
in Zionism.

This logical problem is why smarter Jews have always opposed this line
of reasoning with regards to Israel and especially Zionism. In fact,
Jews in the diaspora have tended to oppose Israel. The ADL, for example,
<a
href="https://www.adl.org/resources/tools-and-strategies/what-is-anti-israel-anti-semitic-anti-zionist"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">has steadfastly rejected the
argument</a> that anti-Zionism is antisemitism. They argue that Israel
is just another country without any special claims upon Jews. Whether
they are sincere or not is debatable, but at least their logic allows
them to be loyal Americans and Jewish.

That is, fundamentally, the problem with people like Prager and Shapiro.
In their zeal to inculcate pro-Israel sentiment, they define themselves
as both un-American and opposed to the very concept of America. Worse
yet, they encourage Christians to sublimate their national loyalty to
the ends of another nation. In order to sell this, they have to lie
about their own intentions and their own beliefs. They demand you place
ideology over biology, while they place biology ahead of ideology.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
