---
title: "The America Problem"
date: "2019-01-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16318"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16318"
---

Way back when the West was pressuring the apartheid government to commit
suicide on behalf of its people, they did a remarkable thing. They
sequestered their nuclear program, making sure the information and
material would not fall into the hands of whatever came after apartheid.
It was remarkable, because no other state has voluntarily abandoned its
program for the good of the world. Governments just do not do that, but
the South Africans did and a huge problem was averted.

The reason this is worth thinking about is there are other unstable
states, with lots of military technology. Pakistan is an obvious
example. There is a better than even chance they have sold nuclear
technology to other Muslim governments. They have most certainly been
working with North Korea. Israel has nuclear weapons, and they have
advanced delivery systems. These are two countries that could fall into
chaos or have their government overthrown. It is not likely at the
moment, but it is possible.

A bigger concern is America. There is no getting around the fact that
America is in bad shape in many important ways. The wizards in the
Federal Reserve have been able to use creative ways to maintain the debt
bubble, but everything comes to an end eventually. The demographic
changes going on in the country are creating very serious fissures
regionally, ethnically, and economically. Just look at how aggressive
and radical the political talk is these days. America looks very brittle
right now.

If you are doing long term planning for the EU or a European government,
you have to be looking at America and thinking about the Crisis of the
Third Century. It is not a perfect analogy, but it is a pretty good one.
Like the Roman Empire, the American Empire is militaristic, the dominant
military power and politically fragile. Like the Romans, America appears
to be critically short of intellectual firepower in its ruling elite.
Who knows, maybe Washington has a [lead pipe
problem](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/to-your-health/wp/2016/02/17/lead-poisoning-and-the-fall-of-rome/),
but it does have an IQ problem.

You have to think China, Japan, Europe, even the Russians are looking at
America and wondering how it keeps teetering on without some serious
reform effort. Further, you have to think the failure of the Trump
administration to get anything done is another data point suggesting the
American political class is malfunctioning. A healthy political elite
would have made sure to co-opt Trump, given him some easy victories and
made sure he turns his talents and political support toward defending
the system.

Instead, the result of the Trump years is likely to be further
confirmation that the system is hopelessly broken. Maybe the Democrats
have some great reformer in their ranks who will rise in the primaries
this year. It seems unlikely, but the funny thing about greatness is no
one ever sees it before it becomes obvious. Still, what the political
class has favored, guys like Bush, Clinton and Obama, suggests they have
managed to create a system that selects against, at an early stage,
anyone with the any amount of talent.

Now, America is probably not going to fall into a period of military
anarchy as happened to the Romans in the third century. America is a
sea-based empire, while the Romans were a land-based empire. Chaos, if
it comes, will first be in the possessions. Perhaps that’s why the Trump
administration is so eager to [get out of
Afghanistan](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-afghanistan-trump/trump-says-afghanistan-talks-proceeding-well-idUSKCN1PO1E5)
and Syria. It could be that the defense establishment has finally
realized they are being bled dry by these commitments. In order to
preserve the empire, they must shrink it.

On the other hand, in an age when controlling the financial system is
worth more than controlling territory, the chaos will show up first in
the economy. We are two months away from “hard Brexit” with no signs of
a soft resolution. The EU had to compromise with the populist Italian
government on their budget. The Yellow Vest riots, which everyone is
told to ignore, are becoming a serious issue in France. All of these
problems in Europe are being driven by the impossible realities of their
economics system.

Whatever your favorite collapse scenario, all of them assume that the
American political class will not be able to keep the plates spinning.
At some point, the divisions in American society, be they cultural,
racial, or economic, become so large that the core of the empire becomes
ungovernable. If you are on the outside looking in right now, America
certainly looks like a continent-wide version of 1970’s New York City.
The difference being, New York City was not armed with nuclear weapons
and a massive military.

How the rest of the world could “manage” the entropy of empire is hard
to know. China could simply work to reduce its exposure to the empire
and wait for it to withdraw from the Pacific Rim. South American
governments seem to be using the current chaos to export their
troublesome populations. They are using the techniques of Progressive
urban gentrification to clean up their underclass. A weakening and
chaotic America could very well be a good thing for them, at least from
a demographic perspective.

European elites are suffering from the same disease as their American
counterparts, so it is unlikely they are thinking too far ahead. On the
other hand, the demographic situation in Europe is salvageable, so they
have more time. France is not condemned to becoming a majority-minority
society. No European country is assured that fate. America is
guaranteed, short of something completely unexpected, to become a
multi-racial, multi-ethnic country, with a large white minority. That is
a mathematical guarantee.

If it turns out that the model of the American empire cannot function
with a majority-minority core and the core becomes ungovernable, then
the world is going to have a very serious problem. After the fall of the
Western Roman Empire, Europe fell into the dark ages for roughly a
millennium. On order to avoid that fate, the world, particularly Europe,
will need to start planning and preparing for life after America. That
means figuring out a way to manage the inevitable decline of the
American empire.
