---
title: "The Western Disease"
date: "2019-02-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16368"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16368"
---

By now, even militant anti-Hollywood people are aware of the zombie
apocalypse, where humanity is put at risk by a plague of zombies. It is
not always zombies. It could be a vampire problem. The general idea is
always the same though. For some reason, people turn into murderous
crazies, attacking normal people. Another variation is the newly dead
rise and begin attacking the living, thus increasing the number of
zombies while decreasing the stock of the living. This is the most
popular version of the concept.

The cause of this problem is either a virus that just turned up for no
reason, a virus made by man or some alien bug that arrived here for
unknown reasons. The germ of this idea, so to speak, is the novel [I Am
Legend](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I_Am_Legend_(novel)). In it the
hero is the last normal person on earth, plagued by what appears to be
vampires. He eventually figures out that they have been infected with a
disease that causes the vampire like symptoms. The book ends with him
having been captured by a hybrid group of vampires that are the future
of man.

The odd thing about Hollywood adaptations of this idea is they never
focus on the logic behind a disease that would cause a species to murder
itself. A virus that kills the host can only work if the host, in the
process of dying, infects new hosts. A pathogen that killed instantly
would die off quickly, so it would most likely never evolve in the first
place. The first iteration would kill the host, before it could spread
or kill the population so quickly that no one could get to another
population group in time to infect them.

Species do go extinct, so it is not inconceivable that some new
environmental element could evolve to take out humanity or a large part
of it. The Black Death did a number on Europe, so we know such a plague
is possible. Thousand cankers disease is a blight that attacks certain
walnut trees. The disease results from the combined activity of the
walnut twig beetle and a fungus. It could very well wipe out the walnut
tree. Similarly, the common banana, known as the cavendish, is at risk
from [Panama disease](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-35131751).

This idea of a disease that causes people to turn on one another,
combined with the habit of nature to clean the slate from time to time,
is a useful way to think about the western disease of multiculturalism.
Rather than think of it as a set of nutty ideas or a conspiracy by one
population to prey on another, it is best thought of as a pathogen that
is causing Europeans to attack themselves. Instead of rage zombies, we
have people obsessed with the emotional well-being of aliens, at the
expense of their kin.

[This live stream](https://youtu.be/Xd2STJlHXes?t=3000) with Ed Dutton,
John Derbyshire, and Richard Spencer from last week gets into it a
little bit. Around the 50-minute mark, they talk about how the Finns, in
particular, but Europe as a whole, have suddenly and inexplicably become
pathological in their altruism. The whole video is worth watching, as Ed
Dutton is a very interesting guy with a head full of dangerous ideas. As
is often the case, when smart people from this side of the divide get
together, they end up puzzling over the disease of multiculturalism.

That is the thing though, no one ever thinks of it like a disease.
Instead, the rock-solid belief is that it is simply the result of
misreading history or drawing the wrong lessons from the industrial wars
of the 20th century. The quest for half a century has been to find the
right combination of noises that will drop the scales from the eyes of
the ruling elites so they will reject multiculturalism. Despite
thousands of smart people working tirelessly to find the right
combination of sounds, the disease has spread to all corners of the
West.

An important thing Dutton points out is that the Finns used to be a very
inward-looking population group. In fact, northern people in general
were very hostile to outsiders, for practical reasons related to
ecology. When you live in challenging environments, cooperation is
essential. This inevitably rewards traits that bind people close to
their social group and traits that make people hostile to outsiders, who
could come in and take some of the precious resources of the group. It
is ecological tribalism.

In the last half century, even the notoriously inward-looking Finns have
been plagued by the need to invite the world, particularly the most
hostile parts, into their community. As Dutton mentions, it even seems
to be causing the Finns to lose their shyness, something for which they
have been known since forever. What possible reasons could a happy
people like the Finns suddenly decided to destroy themselves by inviting
in hostile foreigners from the other side of the globe? What is causing
this madness?

That is an important part of stress, with regards to multiculturalism.
It is new and just sort of arrived in the middle of the last century. We
think of bad ideas as a disease of the mind, but what if it is actually
a disease? What if like [Toxoplasma
gondii](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toxoplasma_gondii), a new germ is
infecting Europeans, causing them to lose their natural fear of that
which is a threat to their existence? Instead of turning local
populations directly against themselves, as is the case with the rage
zombie idea, they are losing their ability to defend themselves.

It sounds incredible, but there is growing evidence that the [bacteria
responsible for gum
disease](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2018/10/181004100009.htm)
may be the cause of Alzheimer’s disease. It has long been known that
there is a correlation between periodontal disease and pancreatic
cancer. It was assumed it was a common genetic cause, but it could be a
common virus or bacteria. Greg Cochran has speculated that something
similar could be the cause of homosexuality. His “gay germ” theory is
speculation, but not unreasonable, given the data.

Now, such a result would mean the “cure” for multiculturalism is we
either treat these people like the rage zombies in TV shows or begin to
think of them as lost and unable to assimilate into a newly rationalized
West. That is, they will be eaten by the rage zombies they invite into
our communities. The rest of us, like the survivors in those TV shows,
will have to find our own place to hold up and rebuild. Those in the
West who are immune to the disease of multiculturalism will become the
founding stock of the new Western people.
