---
title: "Cynicism, Then Revolt"
date: "2019-06-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17621"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17621"
---

A popular line from libertarianism is that the state is violence.
Another way of stating this is the state has a monopoly on violence. The
implication is that the state imposes order, the order of those who
control the state, with the threat of violence or through actual
violence, in the case of law enforcement. It is a Hobbesian view of
society, in which order is imposed, but an inaccurate one. Society, even
authoritarian ones, rely on consent and a shared set of rituals and
symbols to perpetuate consent.

Even the most authoritarian of societies, the prison, where the members
have no control over their bodies, relies on consent and ritual to
maintain order. The regularization of prison life, along with
predictable symbols of authority, keep the prisoners from revolting
against the guards. Without cooperation from the inmates, a prison would
be ungovernable. The cost of housing and feeding humans in perpetual
revolt against their captors would be prohibitive. A prison requires
consent.

In a western liberal democracy, order tilts in the other direction,
where the state relies more on ritual and symbol to encourage the
consent of the governed. Elections are a big part of the ritual, where
the people are made to believe their concerns are considered by the
office holders. Every western nation has symbols and rituals to remind
the voters that they live in a democracy. In America, patriotism is used
to manipulate the people into supporting the system, despite their
misgivings and distrust.

Order in America relies on the balance between the state’s monopoly of
violence, the consent of the people and the maintenance of symbols and
rituals that are the physical manifestation of the American creed. As
long as the people trust and respect those symbols and rituals, they
will support the current order. More precisely, as long as they believe
those rituals, like elections and civic participation, support the
American creed, they will respect the institutions of the state that
maintain order.

Most likely, the process by which a liberal democracy moves from order
to disorder, is like walking through a submarine. The people start in
the compartment of high trust, but events lead them to leave that
compartment and move to the next compartment called doubt or distrust.
Once there, the door closes behind them. This is where the people begin
losing faith in the office holders. The next compartment from there is
cynicism, where the people have lost all trust in the system and the
ruling class.

In this phase of social evolution in a liberal democracy, there is some
remnant of consent and some tug of patriotism. The emotional connection
between the citizens and the state is vestigial. It is a memory and a
sadness at the onset of political cynicism, but then slowly builds to an
anger at what has been lost.
<a href="https://spectator.us/when-populism-fails/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This is what Darren Beattie
fears</a> is right around the corner for America, if Trump’s agenda
fails due the deliberate thwarting of the public will, by the people
controlling the state.

It is safe to assume that the marginalized supporters who came out to
vote for Trump will be forever divorced from the shared consent of the
people. They will stop voting and stop thinking their future lies with
democratic solutions. Just how many of Trump’s voters will fall into
this state is hard to calculate. On the other hand, the coalition of the
ascendant will be energized by this, so the general level of cynicism
will be offset to some degree by enthusiasm from the coalition of the
ascendant.

The truth never mentioned in the Beattie column, because it is
forbidden, is populism is just code for white. What Trump represents is
the white population, who think it is still possible to hold onto
heritage America. If we just get immigration under control and fix some
of the trade deals, things will slowly get back to normal. Oddly, this
is the one thing the Left gets right about Trump. He does want to make
America white again, if not demographically, certainly culturally and
institutionally.

There is no question that many whites in America have moved from the
compartment of distrust to the compartment of cynicism. Beattie is wrong
to assume this process is not already underway. It started a long time
ago as a trickle on the Right and now the pace is accelerating. This is
evident in the growth and persistence of the dissident right, which has
thrived despite the authoritarian tactics of the ruling class. Despite
having more political prisoners than ever, we have more dissidents than
ever too.

Still, Beattie is not wrong to assert that the failure of popular
causes, like immigration controls, will push many more people into the
cynicism compartment. The result will be an America where consent begins
to fade and is replaced by coercion. White people will continue to
follow the rules, not because they respect those rules, but because they
fear reprisals from the state. The authority of the ruling class will no
longer be based in their legitimacy to rule, but their control of the
monopoly of violence.

In the trenches, soldiers will fight and die for their comrades, despite
the rotten conditions their leaders create for them. In human society,
the people will tolerate great deprivations in support of their
neighbors. That social capital, upon which authority relies, will help
maintain order, even when the rulers have failed in their duties. In a
land where everyone’s neighbor is a stranger, there can be no foundation
of social capital upon which to rest authority. The people must trust
and respect their rulers.

That’s the next compartment after cynicism. When Trump’s agenda fails,
as it sure will, white cynicism toward the system will grow. It will
reach a point where the ruling class can only maintain order through
coercion. They will live in fear of crisis, as the people will have no
reason to sacrifice and no trust in the system to see them through the
difficult times. The relationship between ruler and ruled will be like
an old married couple hanging on until the kids are grown. The divorce
is inevitable.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">please contribute here</a>.
