---
title: "Coaching Markets"
date: "2019-09-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18699"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18699"
---

In America, a fall Saturday often means watching some college football
or possibly heading off to tailgate at the alma mater. Sunday is for the
NFL, which remains the top television draw, despite its problems. For
much of the country, Friday night is for the local high school games.
Some parts of the country play their high school games on Saturday
morning, but for most it is Friday night. In Texas, high school football
is a two billion dollar business. Americans love their sports,
especially football.

Currently, the two best coaches in the game are Nick Saban, who coaches
the Alabama Crimson Tide and Bill Belichick of the NFL’s New England
Patriots. The fact that the ancestors of both men are from Illyria is an
interesting fact. Not only are both the best of their era, it is
possible they are the best ever. Both men have a similar style of
managing their programs and both are known for being something less than
charming with the media. The shadow of
[Diocletian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diocletian) is very long.

Anyway, the thing that stands out about Saban and Belichick is they are
smart men, who are excellent organizers. They are gifted at working
within the constraints of the game and the constraints of their
situations. They are not married to a style of play, instead adapting to
the talent on-hand and the state of the game. They are known for getting
the most from each player, often creating a niche for the player that
did not exist. They also adapt to their staffs, shuffling people in and
out of their organizations.

The thing is, what makes both men remarkable is that they are
exceptions. Coaching football is a very lucrative profession in current
year America. Bill Belichick is thought to make close to $15 million per
year. Nick Saban makes $9 million per year. Both men are probably worth
over $100 million at this point. In the case of Belichick, he could be
worth a quarter billion or more, as he surely has been given investment
opportunities unavailable to most people. Sports teams are owned by
oligarchs.

Now, for two of the greatest of all time, that is probably justifiable,
but further down the talent scale, the money is still very good. All
over the NFL, there are head coaches making millions per year for being
very bad at their jobs. There are lots of assistants making big money
for being bad at their jobs. Many assistants, are often known to lack
the talent to ever be a head coach, while others are simply happy to be
a mediocre NFL coach making a very good living in the game.

At the college level, the cost of mediocrity is most obvious. Many of
the college head coaches are dumb people, even by the standards of
sport. Will Muschamp coaches the University of South Carolina football
team. He makes over $5 million per year. He is not very good at coaching
football. He got fired from his last high paying gig and he will be
fired from this one. He’s not alone. The game is littered with guys who
are not all that bright, but somehow rise to the top of the profession.

If libertarians were right about anything, this would not be the case.
There is very little government interference in the coaching business.
These are contract employees, so they can be fired at will. Moreover,
the colleges seem to be immune from charges of discrimination like
private business. Blacks are wildly under-represented in the coaching
business. There are few Jews in the management side. Women are just
about non-existent in the game. Sport is free to be a free market for
coaches.

In theory, the lucrative salaries and the lifestyle should be a magnet
for smart young people in America. Every year, thousands of young people
head to Hollywood and New York hoping to be a star. They want to be
famous. You would think something similar would happen with coaching,
where the money is great and you don’t have to have sex with guys like
Harvey Weinstein as a condition of employment. Smart young people should
be flocking to sports coaching trying to make it big.

Of course, something similar should be true of politics. Congressman and
Senators are not pulling down football coach money, but they live a
great lifestyle. They also get perks like the right to trade on their
insider knowledge. Paul Ryan, for example, went to Washington penniless
and retired with a net worth of $6 million. He landed in a seven figure
job bribing his fellow colleagues. That should draw hundreds of
candidates into every race, but politics is largely a closed shop,
despite being democratic.

There’s not point here, other than that to point out that “natural
markets” don’t exist, even in the absence of government. There’s almost
no government role in the football coaching business, but it is a closed
world controlled by relationships and insider information among the
coaches. The same is true of politics. In theory, anyone can run for
Congress. In reality, they allow in only those they want in. The Senate
is the world’s most exclusive club, followed by the House and the
football coaching fraternity.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
