---
title: "Constitutional Failure"
date: "2019-09-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18660"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18660"
---

A decade’s long refrain from principled conservatives and civic
nationalists has been that the problems of America could be cured by
returning to the constitutional principles as defined by the Founders.
The principled conservatives have, of late, be much more enthusiastic
for the alleged principles of the Declaration, while the civic
nationalists stick with the Constitution as written. The trouble is, the
cause of the present troubles, the source of what ails current year
America is the Constitution itself.

Constitutions can be written and unwritten, positive and negative.
American has a mostly written constitution, while the UK has an
unwritten one. By unwritten, it is understood to mean there is no single
controlling document. Instead, there are customs and precedents that
have been in place for so long that most citizens think these are, in
fact, laws yet they are not. There are laws originating from these
customs and precedents, but ultimately, tradition is what frames the
political order.

Then there are negative and positive constitutions. A positive
constitution is one that details the duties of government. These duties
could be to the citizens or they could be the duties of the defined
entities within the state. The negative constitution, in contrast, lists
the powers of the state, the division of power within the state and the
limits of the power of the state over the citizens. The American
constitution, as originally conceived, is a negative constitution. It
sets limits on the government.

That’s the theory, but in reality, constitutions are a blend of the
written and unwritten, as well as a mix of positive and negative law. In
the American system, traditions and customs have arisen that seem like
laws. Legislatures have passed laws obligating the government to perform
certain duties for the citizens. Of course, there is the that divide
between those who see the constitutional order resting on the Gettysburg
Address and those who see it still in the Bill of Rights. Ours is a
blended system.

There’s something else about constitutions that goes unnoticed. That is
they define of the roles of the power centers of society within
politics. For example, the Founders understood that real power in
America was local. In each of the former colonies, there were local
elites who welded real power. Because they were sane men, they knew real
power always rested in the upper reaches of the natural hierarchy of
man. In the new constitutional order, those power interests needed a
defined role.

The Senate, which was the body representing the local elites, was given
an important role in the new political order. Since there was no such
thing as a national elite, and no one wanted such thing, there was no
role for a national elite. Instead, the Senate was the body that would
represent the states, which were controlled by the local elites. Through
the state legislatures, senators would be chosen to represent state
interests in the new federal government. The Senate is the rich people’s
house.

There is the first problem with the Constitution. In the 18th century, a
national elite came in one form and that was a king and the aristocracy.
The king had national interests, as he technically owned the society
over which he ruled. He also had the power to exercise his rights,
either directly or through the network of aristocrats, who were often
his kin. This was not something Founders had or wanted. They had just
fought a long war with the king to establish their local rule over their
domains.

Therefore the idea of a national or global elite was anathema to the
Founders, so there was never a role defined for this type power center.
Further, subsequent changes to the Constitution have stripped the states
of their power in government. The Senate is another democratic body. As
a result, local elites have no voice in national government. Compounding
it, there is no definition and therefore no limit on the national
elites. National and now global interests operate outside the
constitutional framework.

That’s the other defect in the constitution. An unwritten political
order requires those with power to exert their power. In order to
maintain power, elites of all types must actively assert their
privilege, often with calls to tradition and custom. In a written
system, the bias is toward defending prerogatives and privileges. The
law becomes the ultimate source of authority, because it is the lines
separating the various power interests within the political order.
Everyone has to be a lawyer.

Because the American written constitution never defined a role for
national and global elites, they are free to exert their power as much
as nature will allow. Because they only confront resistance from those
constitutionally limited institutions, playing defense within the law,
they have been free to expand to the point where they now transcend the
political order. It is why appeals to the law to restrain the aggressive
behavior of woke capital is pointless. The law is constrained from
acting.

It is why, as absurd as it may sound at first blush, a third house of
Congress could be created to resolve this asymmetry. The moneyed
interest bribing Congressman and Senators would be prohibited from that
practice, but be provided a chamber of their own with power to counter
the House, Senate and Executive. The new house, perhaps, would be given
the power of the purse, since they pay the taxes, while the House would
be given power that reflects the interests of the modern citizen.

This would be resisted by the elite, so it would never happen, at least
not without a revolution. This is why efforts to curb the flow of money
into politics have failed. The people giving the money have no reason to
support such a change. It’s why abolishing corporate taxes would be most
resisted by the corporations themselves. It is through the tax code that
corporate interests can most influence Congress. Without a reason to
lobby Washington, they can’t be there to exert their power over
politics.

The expansion of democratic elements into the American constitutional
system has added another set of problems, the illusion of choice and the
illusion of power. Voters think the parties offer real options, when the
options are controlled entirely by the undefined elite. They also think
the power of their vote has real value. This blinds the citizen to the
reality of his political order. Democracy magnifies the defects of the
written constitutional order, resulting in the current instability.

This is why calls to return to the old order or even the order of the
second founding is a primitive response to the problem of design. Even
if it were possible to roll back to such a system, the power
relationships would not change. In fact, a smaller government, as
originally intended, would be weaker and less able to fend off the
predations of the power elite elite. Put another way, if the roots of
the problem are the defects within the Constitutional order, fidelity to
that order is the problem, not the solution.

Of course, if the plan is to revolt in order to put the old political
order back on the throne, then that leaves open the option of revolting
and creating a new political order that reflects the realities of the
current age. The original Constitution was about codifying the victory
of the Founders, who revolted against the old order. A revolution
against the old order of today, a successful revolution, will inevitably
result in codifying the victory of the victorious revolutionaries. The
new principles will reflect their sensibilities.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
