---
title: "Politics and Aesthetics"
date: "2019-06-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17802"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17802"
---

The Democrats are about to kick-off their fashion show for picking their
next presidential candidate, so the experts are trying to set the tone
for the season. The fashion show is a good analogy at this
stage. Designers don’t always come up with new styles that work with the
public, so they try different things, hoping for one or two that work.
They hope to come up with something that catches the attention of a
taste-maker, like a Hollywood starlet, then all of a sudden they have a
hit with the public.

Steve Jobs figured this out the second time around with Apple. It was
not about cutting edge technology or making a better product. That was a
field with too many big money smart players. His game was going to be as
trend setter and taste-maker. He tailored the company to be the symbol
of the smart set, the people who fashion themselves a cut above the
masses. These are the people who determine the latest styles. The lowly
music player soon became a fashion and cultural statement.

Politics often works the same way. In 1992, Bill Clinton won the
presidency largely on the cool factor. He was young, as far as Baby
Boomers were concerned. He was also hip and cool. He played the sax on
TV wearing sunglasses! Voting for Clinton became a fashion statement for
the Left. Tony Blair played the same game in Britain with the “Cool
Britannica” stuff. He was young and new and the future of Britain,
despite being the man, who would usher in the end of Britain as an
English country.

Politics and aesthetics are tightly wound together in any form of
democracy, as selecting people for elected office is a popularity
contest. The winner of the beauty pageant is not objectively better in
some way than the others. She just has some way of appealing to the
voters in the moment. The iPod was not some great innovation or
invention. It just looked cool to the right people at the right time and
became the standard for music players. Barak Obama was not a great
statesman. He was just the right style at the time.

It’s not just left-wing politics in America that relies on an aesthetic
to carry it forward with its supporters. In 1976 Ronald Reagan lost to
the dour Gerald Ford in the Republican primary. The same Reagan won in
1980 and ushered in a great cultural revival called the Reagan
Revolution. In 1976 men had sideburns and wore garish leisure suits. In
1986, men wore traditional men’s suits, bathed every day and kept
themselves properly groomed. The political revolution had an aesthetic.

This has always been true in the era of liberal democracy. The two great
movements of the early 20th century, fascism and Bolshevism, had
distinct aesthetics. The quintessential communist a century ago was a
shabby looking cosmopolitan, with round spectacles and a few too many
phobias. In contrast, the quintessential fascist was the beer drinking
bourgeoisie hooligan, who disdained books in favor of the Faustian
existence. Both sides were fighting over an aesthetic, as much as for
power.

This is an important thing to understand about politics in any age, but
especially in this highly democratic age. It’s about flattery, as much
as anything. The people flocking to your banner do so because it
validates an opinion of themselves. <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/06/2020-democratic-candidates-nerdiness-good/591673/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece</a> in the
Atlantic, celebrating Elizabeth Warren and Pete Buttigieg is a good
example. The intended audience for that article are the sort of people,
who want to belief their politics are controlled by facts and reason,
rather than superstition and emotion.

The fact that both Warren and Buttigieg are pseudo-intellectual posers
is not only not a liability, but it is an asset. The people they seek to
attract are themselves supercilious dilettantes and poseurs. They get
their opinions from the MSNBC and NPR, while claiming to be avid readers
of the New York Times. These are the people who decorate their
apartments with books they never read. Around a real intellectual, they
are made to feel inferior, but around Warren or Buttigieg they are
validated.

The argument that the democrats are heavily reliant on the super
educated is what’s called flattering the reader. Democrats rely on
blacks, foreigners and white people too dumb to realize they are being
destroyed. That is the base of the party now. Warren and Buttigieg know
they have no shot at those voters, so they hope to win the beautiful
people in the party. They may not connect with the rank and file, but
they can appeal to the trend setters, who have the tools to convert that
into popular appeal.

Another way to see the entanglement of politics and aesthetics is look
at the street battles between the alt-right and Antifa. One side kitted
themselves out as preppy suburban fascists. The other side was a comical
mélange of Italian Black Shirts and skateboard park anarchists. Neither
side had a coherent, positive identity, so they cherry-picked styles and
symbols from past movements. They could just as easily have faced off
with one side in leisure suits and the other side wearing spats.

In fact, what characterizes this period is the lack of a political
aesthetic that is authentic and original. This is an interregnum, where
the old order is slowly giving way, but a new order has yet to form.
More precisely, the battles lines between the contestants for a new
order have yet to form. Instead, it is one side protecting the status
quo and one side dissatisfied with it. The former has no reason to
defend the old order, other than habit, while the latter has no
conception of what should come next.

If there is to be a coherent political and social movement rise out of
the dissident right, it will have to be more than narrow political
arguments and meta-political commentary on social media. It will need a
look that signals to the curious that it is a movement with a future for
itself and its adherents. Just as men in traditional suits signaled a
break from the 1970’s and the radical chic of the New Left, the new
aesthetic will have to signal a break from the old political paradigm
and the old Progressive morality.

If you like living off the sweat of others, then ignore the following.
On the other hand, if you care about your community and want to support
those working hard on your behalf, consider supporting my work by
donating the price of a beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">Five bucks a month</a> is not a lot to ask.
Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money to destroy
your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC
P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. Or, <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a>.
