---
title: "Apes Flying Planes"
date: "2019-06-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17680"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17680"
---

Imagine that archaeologists, digging around in the jungles somewhere,
stumbled upon what they think are the remains of ancient buildings. Upon
closer examination they learn that it is very old, but has technology
that is advanced, more advanced than the most advanced technology of
today. This is the sort of premise that makes for a good science fiction
story or even a mediocre sci-fi series. The next step in the plot is a
drama between the characters over what to do with the newly discovered
alien technology.

In real life, there would be an endless rounds of committee meetings and
memorandum as the bureaucracy tried hard to not do anything with the new
technology. The original discoverers would die of old age long before a
decision was made. Even without the byzantine processes, nothing would
be done, as no one would know what to do with the alien technology.
Anything that far advanced would be the product of a race with an
entirely different evolutionary arc. No one would know why they created
the technology.

That’s the part that gets left out of the science fiction version of the
story. Technological advance often seems like leaps and bounds, but in
the long run it is glacial. For example, plow design remained fairly
crude into the 19th century, then all of sudden it advanced rapidly to
what we know as the modern design. That great leap in technology was the
result of the glacial advance in material science, economics and social
organization that started in the Middle Ages. The plow was the result of
that.

That alien discovered in the jungle would have been the result of a
similarly long evolution of an unknown race of beings. Without that long
arc, their technology would be like the final pages of a mystery novel,
without the rest of the book or even the knowledge surrounding the book.
At best, we would be able to guess at parts of the arc, but we would
have no idea why the thing was created, so we would have no idea what to
do with it. An example of this is the Antikythera mechanism.

Now, this is not advanced alien technology, but it is alien technology.
The ancient Greeks are alien to us, not quite as alien as people from
space, but we really can’t know that for sure. The Antikythera mechanism
was discovered in the spring of 1901 and it took 70 years to begin to
understand it. In 2008, researchers announced that it was an instrument
for predicting astronomical positions, eclipses and for maintaining a
calendar. They still don’t know all of it.

Now, if it took a century to puzzle through a piece of alien technology
from 2500 years in our past, from a people about whom we know a lot, how
long would it take to unravel advanced technology from a mysterious
alien people? It is a pretty safe bet that the CIA has learned nothing
from that crashed alien spaceship they keep at Area 51 in Nevada. Unless
the aliens sent scientists trained in working with retarded people, we
would have no way of figuring out where to start with the technology.

Now, what does this have to do with anything? Technological advance is a
feedback loop within a society. It’s why technological advances can move
from one people to a similar people, but they take a long time to work
into alien cultures. Europe went through a rapid technological advance
starting around 1500, racing ahead of the rest of the world. Much of
what the West created did not make it into Asia and Africa until the
20th century. Advances in social organization remain alien to much of
the world.

Now, imagine what happens when a people become too stupid to maintain
the technology created by their ancestors. This is something that would
be predicted by social cycle theory. As the ruling elites, the smart
fraction, sees its fertility rate decline, the overall IQ of the people
declines. There could reach a point where the society no longer has the
social capital to maintain the social and material complexity created by
their ancestors. At some point, their world becomes chimps flying
airplanes.

Think of it this way. Imagine if tomorrow, everyone with a working
knowledge of turbines died from some awful disease. We would still have
smart people capable of learning about turbines, but they would have to
learn it. They would also have to acquire the experience of working with
turbines. It would take years before we had enough people able to work
on and maintain existing turbines. By that point, the work needed to
repair existing turbines would be massive. It may never get done at all.

Now, the evidence is strong that Europeans are getting dumber, and that
is putting aside the issues related to immigration. In fact, the decline
into stupidity may be accelerating. When you add in immigration by
people with significantly lower intelligence than existing European
people, the effect is an acceleration toward a much lower average IQ for
Western nations. Again, this is predicted by social cycle theory to a
degree, but also backed up by research into the subject by people like
Ed Dutton.

The social instability of the West, things like the inability to control
borders and the revival of primitive beliefs, promoted by female
shamans, could very well be due to the decline of general intelligence.
The people populating the machinery for running a modern Western society
no longer possess the intelligence to properly operate the machinery.
They are like those researchers who discovered alien technology, except
our rulers, bureaucrats, and intellectuals are convinced they know how
all of it works.

There is another angle to this. Take the financial system, which is
probably the most automated system today. It has reached a level of
complexity where no one person knows how all of it works. This is not
just the narrow technological stuff. Transactions have reached a level
of complexity where specialists focus on just one part. About 70 percent
of overall trading volume is now generated through algorithmic trading.
The markets are literally run by robots that no one fully understands.

As a result of this realty, like the science fiction movies, the world
markets now have what amount to dead man switches. If the robots get out
of control, the breakers put a halt to trading in order to give humans a
chance to figure out what’s happening. This is a preview of what lies
ahead for Western society as a best case scenario. The apparatus of the
state will be kitted out with circuit breakers and dead man switches,
not to control the algos, but the stupid people operating the machinery.
It is apes flying planes.

A more likely scenario is something beyond anarcho-tyranny. Instead of
the authoritarian institutions harassing citizens over petty matters and
ignoring the serious issues they were designed to address, the machinery
of society will slowly grind to a halt, as happened in post-colonial
Africa. The organizational systems, not just the physical machinery,
will become too complex for the people to master. As a result, we will
enter a period of technological and social regression toward the new
mean IQ.

Put another way, the society created by our ancestors of just a few
generations ago is beyond the event horizon of our modern ruling and
intellectual elites. The physical manifestations are all around us, but
the cultural aptitude to create and maintain such a world is now beyond
the reach of our elites. While they remain smarter and more
sophisticated than the main body of citizens, they are relatively
primitive compared to their ancestors and as a result we are ruled by
people puzzled by their own inheritance.

To contribute to my <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">work</a>

Or, You can send money to me at:

P.O. Box 432  
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432
