---
title: "A New Ape In The Tree"
date: "2019-04-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16997"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16997"
---

It appears there is <a
href="https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2019/04/10/710278943/ancient-bones-and-teeth-found-in-a-philippines-cave-may-rewrite-human-history"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">another ape in the
neighborhood</a>. Well, there was another ape and the neighborhood is
the human family tree. Researchers have found parts of what they think
is another species of human that lived roughly 50,000 years ago. The
discovery was made in a cave on the island of Luzon, which is in the
Philippines, a dozen years ago, but the announcement has just been made
after years of research. There’s a lot of work to be done to figure out
where this new species fits, but they seem sure it is a new species.

This is not the first time a new species has been found in the South
Pacific. In 2004, *Homo floresiensis* was found on the island of Flores
in Indonesia. They actually found quite a few skeletons, so they were
able to more quickly figure out that it was a new species and not just
some odd bits of an existing species. This was the one they nicknamed
the hobbit, because the species stood about 4-feet tall as adults.
Finding a second species of short people on another island adds another
mystery to the human origin story.

That’s the real back story to these finds. For a very long time, the
generally accepted narrative had modern Neanderthals leaving Africa
first, followed by modern humans, who either out-competed or replaced
Neanderthals. The out-of-Africa story not only fit the fossil record,
but it fit the popular narratives of the modern West. The argument that
people are all the same, except for the trivial differences in
appearance, works a lot better when everyone has the same origin story.
Recent data is calling that into question.

One important thing that these two discoveries confirm is something some
have been denying for a long time. That is, evolution is recent and
local. An important part of the important narrative has been that no
real important changes in humans happened after our ancestors left
Africa. These two finds make clear that evolution never stops and will
accelerate when a species enters a new environment. In other words,
humans not only kept evolving, they evolved to adapt to local conditions
and local challenges.

Another issue raised by these finds is that there may have been many
human species in Africa at the same time. It’s possible these bones are
from another type of human that also made it out of Africa, settled on
these islands and was cut-off. Genetics has found evidence of a “ghost”
population in sub-Saharan Africans that does not exist in other humans.
Just as Neanderthal DNA is found in Eurasians, but not Africans, this
ghost population does not appear anywhere else. We may not all have the
same ancestors.

The significant physical differences found in these skeletons confirms
something else that has not always been popular. That is, small
difference can have big differences downstream. In other words, having
99% of the same DNA may not mean the final product is 99% alike. These
two species are dated to around the same time and most likely share a
common recent ancestor, but small differences in their evolutionary
history resulted in big differences in their appearance and big
differences from their mainland relatives.

Of course, there is another aspect to a find like this. Any time new
information undermines old assumptions, it calls into question other old
assumptions. If the out-of-Africa narrative has been mostly wrong for
decades, maybe it is just wrong. Maybe humans did not first appear in
Africa, but maybe started to appear in several places. The evidence does
not point this way, but maybe science has been looking in the wrong
places for the wrong things, based on the old theory. Maybe there is
many new chapters to the story.

More important, the evidence is mounting that a major claim of the
ruling orthodoxy is flat out wrong. Science does not support their
claims. Human evolution is real, it is recent and it is local. However
humans got to Eurasia, whatever common ancestors they have with humans
around the world, they started to change as soon as they settled in
their new lands, in order to thrive in those new lands. The question is
not how much are we the same, but rather how much are we different and
how important is that now.

That’s what makes this an interesting age. Just as heliocentrism was
seen as a threat to the prevailing orthodoxy, ancient DNA and the
archaeological record is quickly becoming a challenge to the orthodoxy
of this age. In fact, the current orthodoxy may be much more fragile
than what Galileo faced 500 years ago. The organization of Europe did
not depend on the sun revolving around the earth. Even the authority of
the Church was not dependent on that model. Christian Europe was not
invalidated by the telescope.

In this age, differences in origin stories and differences in
evolutionary history will cripple our civic religion. You can’t claim
people are amorphous blobs, if evolution is true, and you cannot claim
all people are biologically equal if they are not. Further, the true
believers cannot claim the mantle of science, if their beliefs are in
conflict with science. The church of the secular Left is not just wrong
about a few things, it turns out that its reason to exist is entirely
false. That’s like discovering Christ never existed.
