---
title: "Never Forget"
date: "2019-12-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19238"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19238"
---

One of the odd results of the mass media culture is a sort of collective
amnesia in which we forget things almost as fast as they happen. The
Jeffrey Epstein murder was a big deal and then it was forgotten. The
fake investigation was forgotten while it was happening, as by now
everyone knows the drill. The result of the communications revolution is
that the public lives in a permanent state of now. Yesterday and
tomorrow no longer exist, as they are not in the frame of the permanent
now.

The phrase “conspiracy theory” now applied to anyone dredging up old
scandals or old controversies. You can be sure that next year, anyone
mentioning the FBI spying scandal will be called a conspiracy theorist.
This happened with the white wash of the Clinton e-mail scandal. Within
the frame of the present, the event happened, the good guys won and the
event was moved out of the frame. Anyone bringing it back up is treated
like a lunatic talking about how they saw Big Foot.

As dangerous and taboo as the recent past may seem, there are useful
lessons to be drawn from the last decade or so. For example, there was a
representative from Illinois way back in the far away times of 2014. His
name was Aaron Schock and he was considered a rising star in politics.
All the right people liked him, because he was an extreme open borders
globalist. Peter Singer was a big supporter. Schock used to make videos
like <a href="http://youtu.be/tXP9qWjqOWA" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this one</a> where he promoted demographic replacement.

Schock had to resign his seat when it was learned he was stealing money
from his campaign to finance his unusual lifestyle. He was charged with
24 criminal counts in Federal court related to his theft from his
campaign. Despite his pro-family positions, he kept turning up at gay
bars and in <a
href="https://i0.wp.com/instinctmagazine.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/totally-not-tipping-2-1.jpg?resize=670%2C335&amp;quality=100&amp;strip=all&amp;ssl=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">photos</a> with gay dancers.
In other words, he was a complete fraud, a paid actor hired to fool the
voters. These are
<a href="https://media.graytvinc.com/images/810*581/ben-sasse3.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the types of people</a> hired
by guys like Paul Singer to corrupt and subvert conservatives.

You’ll note that Conservative Inc. has developed a real taste for sexual
deviancy over the last decade. Charlie Kirk is fond of hanging around
openly gay men at his college speaking tours. The most fruitful lines of
attack thus far by the groypers was simply pointing out that TP-USA
looks like gay disco. Kirk, standing in front of a sign that reads
culture war, next to a flamboyant homosexual, while mocking normal young
males is a great visual. It brings it all home to people.

Of course, Paul Singer is just one guy, so he is somewhat limited in
what he can do with his billions to warp the political process. Even
billionaires are limited in how much they are allowed to give the actors
they hire for these roles. That’s where operations like American
Enterprise come into the mix. In case it has been forgotten, they were
the ones <a
href="https://www.propublica.org/article/inside-purdue-pharma-media-playbook-how-it-planted-the-opioid-anti-story"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">helping poison</a> millions of
America with the opioid crisis. At this point, calling it a holocaust is
not unreasonable, given the numbers.

American Enterprise, in addition to housing Jonah Goldberg, is also big
into promoting sexual deviancy. They have a
<a href="https://www.aei.org/tag/transgender/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">whole section</a> dedicated to it. They also have a
tranny in senior management. Giselle Donnelly used to be Thomas Donnelly
until he decided to <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/josh-rogin/wp/2018/10/12/giselle-donnelly-can-finally-be-herself/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">reintroduce himself</a> to
Washington as a trans woman. AEI, by the way, is a big supporter of Ben
Sasse and was a big supporters of Aaron Schock. Also of note, Paul
Singer, <a
href="https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2019/12/03/tucker_carlson_how_paul_singer_hedge_funds_are_destroying_rural_america.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the small town killer</a>, is
a major donor to American Enterprise.

As scary as it seems, this is why it is useful to rummage around in the
recent past, particularly when it comes to Conservative Inc. These
scoundrels have been able to hide in plain sight, because they can rely
on their media organs to constantly shift the focus to the next thing.
That’s the role of talk radio and right-wing rage heads like FNC’s Sean
Hannity. They fill the air with noise over the latest outrage, so no one
takes notice of what their paymasters are doing in the shadows.

The great scandal of Conservative Inc. is not that these people were
just stuffing their pockets with donor cash. It’s not that they took
bribes to promote the sale of opiates to unsuspecting Americans. It is
not a case of an institution becoming corrupted by material temptations.
The real scandal is that Conservative Inc. was always this corrupt and
dishonest. It was always a bust-out. It was always just another tentacle
of a ruling class that hates and despises the people it rules.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
