---
title: "Past Is The Future"
date: "2019-11-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18979"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18979"
---

A bad habit dissidents have inherited from conservatives is to
instinctively dispute the claims made by our enemies. If a cosmopolitan
globalist says X, the tendency is to argue that X is wrong. This has
been the habit of mind for conservatives since the birth of Buckley
conservatism in the middle of the last century. The motto of that crew
should be “well actually” as that’s what they have spent generations
saying to every left-winger they can find. Many dissidents have brought
this habit with them.

<a href="https://twitter.com/RubinReport/status/1190310746002874368"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s an example</a> of
someone called Dave Rubin making the claim that America is a proposition
nation. Anyone can be an America, as long as they fill out the right
paperwork down at the right government office. He is echoing an
assertion popular with a certain sort of conservative pundit. Unlike a
country like Israel, to use a totally random example, America is not a
nation that occupies a territory it sees as a homeland, but a land that
contains people, who more or less agree not to murder one another.

The responses are all of things that we have come to expect whenever
someone promotes the propositional nation assertion on a pubic platform.
There’s a call and response quality to this stuff. The guy allowed on
the stage, to stand in the spotlight and hold forth on various issues,
is accompanied by a chorus just off-stage that responds to what he is
saying. The trouble with the model is the responses don’t actually
address the intent of the statement. Instead they fixate on theory
behind it.

As a practical matter, Rubin is correct. America is a propositional
nation, in that citizenship is now entirely meaningless to the native
born. It has value to the millions pouring over the border every year,
but to the people who hold US citizenship, it is a stock certificate for
a company that no longer exists. Stock certificate is really not the
right way to put it, as it is more like a debt certificate. Every year
that tax on people holding citizenship goes up, as the land gets <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/30/us/politics/trump-refugees-montana.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">enriched</a> with the dregs of
the earth.

Now, the people who reflexively push back on the proposition nation
stuff certainly wish this was not the case. They are correct that
American citizenship should count for something and not just be handed
out like candy at Halloween. In other words, they are right about the
theory, but wrong about practical reality. More important, the people in
charge are not going to change their policies and make citizenship count
again. That means citizenship, as a practical matter, is now completely
worthless.

Dissidents are fond of talking about red pills, which usually means
coming to terms with who is the enemy and the reality of so-called
allies. In reality, the people busying themselves identifying and
describing the enemy are still operating under the assumption that
citizenship is still a real thing or at least a real thing that can be
recaptured if we can just defeat the enemy. The fact is, that old
concept of citizenship is meaningless and will never be otherwise.
That’s the ultimate red pill.

It also means any sense of duty or obligation to the country is not only
meaningless, it is foolish. Citizenship either arises from a social
contract, to which all members are bound for mutual benefit or it arises
from a shared identity of the citizens. If anyone can become a citizen,
without the consent of the citizenry, then there can be no mutual
benefit, no social contract. Similarly, if anyone can join the group,
then it has no fixed identity and the members therefore gain no identity
from it.

This is what makes the propositional nation stuff so difficult to grasp.
In a normal nation, people are either a citizen, a subject or an alien.
In a nation of citizens, the people are sovereign, beholden to one
another. In a nation of subjects, the people serve a ruler, who is the
sovereign. The alien, in both cases, is resident under whatever
conditions set by the nation. In the propositional nation, everyone is
an alien. The country is just an ad hoc collection of people interacting
with one another as economic units.

In this weird, post-national country created for us by our ruling class,
all relationships are transactional. This is why anyone can be an
American. As long as the newcomers participate in the economy, they are
the same as anyone else as far as the people in charge are concerned.
The rulers have no more of an obligation to the people than the people
have to one another. The ruling and administrative class maintain order,
not because it is their duty, but because they gain some benefit from
it.

Of course, this is why the ruling class has abandoned so much of what is
considered the duties of a ruling class. They have no duties. They
enforce the laws as they want, when they want, solely for their own
benefit. Where there is no benefit, they have simply abandoned those
duties. It turns out that anarcho-tyranny is not so much the result of
managerialism, but the inevitable result of post-nationalism. In a world
solely governed by material relations, sacrifice becomes just another
relic of the past.

In a way, post-nationalism is just a reversion to a more primitive
organizational model, one that arose in the late Roman Empire and the
early middle ages. Under the Visigoths and Ostrogoths, for example,
groups formed up around ethnic, religious and regional affiliations to
negotiate with the rulers collectively. The rulers did not feel a
natural duty to the people over whom they ruled. They just wanted their
taxes and an orderly administration of their lands. That’s the
propositional nation.

That what makes accepting post-nationalism the ultimate red pill. Once
you come to terms with the fact that there is no convincing the people
in charge to respect your citizenship, you realize there is no going
back to the civic nationalist model. Instead, the way forward is through
the oldest form of nationhood. That’s where a nation is defined by a
people with a common heritage, a common set of ancestors. The way
forward is to go back to the most basic form of human organization, the
nation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
