---
title: "AmRen Journal II"
date: "2019-05-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17473"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17473"
---

Saturday is the long day of the conference. It starts at nine and runs
through five, then there is a banquet with a speaker. This year Taylor
went with a youth movement for the speakers. Patrick Casey started
things off with a talk about his group and what they are doing. Young
people are terrible public speakers, because they are inexperienced, and
nervous, but Casey delivered a nice professional talk that did not try
to do too much.

That’s the key with public speaking. You’re not Cicero or Patrick Henry
so don’t try too hard. Make your points, respect the audience and play
within yourself. Casey delivered a nice professional speech that covered
the material. It suggests he is growing into his role as a leader of his
group. There’s nothing wrong with youthful energy, which AIM has in
plenty, but there needs to be a steady hand guiding that youthful
energy.

It occurred to me, while interacting with the AIM guys, that the biggest
challenge they will face is maintaining discipline in the organization.
Bring together a bunch of bright young guys and they will come up with a
million new ideas. Not all of them will be great ideas, which where guys
like Casey need to step in and impose some discipline, in order to keep
the groups on the same page and out of dangerous waters.

The trouble, young guys will buck and not want to take direction from
the home office on what they are doing locally. Casey is going to have
make belonging to his brand so valuable that the local chapters will
never consider breaking off on their own, which was an issue with the
Identity Europa organization. Casey is a bright guy getting good advice,
so they will unriddle it, but it will be a challenge for them in the
near term…

John Derbyshire, who gave a talk on his idea of an arctic alliance. It’s
a stock talk he has given before in various ways, but with so many new
people showing up at these things, it is important they hear the source
material for many of the ideas they have found persuasive. His talk was
a good counter to the Casey talk, as Derb is more on the philosophy and
theory end, while Casey is a retail organizer.

Political theory and meta-politics are important, but they are useless
without a retail arm implementing those ideas. At the same time,
organizing to gain political power is just barbarism, unless it is
toward some larger goal. Power is not an end in itself, but a means to
an end. America has rotten elites and they need to be replaced, but
their rotten ideas have to be defeated as well. Giving the audience a
taste of bother ends of that political teeter-totter was a good way to
open the show…

The afternoon session shifted gears a bit. Jared always has at least one
speaker discuss events in Europe, which is a great way to add some
perspective. As Americans, we often fail to notice what’s happening in
the broader world. That’s mostly because our media is all propaganda at
this point, but we have always been a provincial people. We have a big
country with plenty to keep us busy. Still what’s happening in with
regards to the big issues of this age is just as important as what is
happening here.

John Morgan from Counter-Currents gave a great talk on Hungary. He is an
American, but he spends most of his life in Europe. Oddly, what is
happening in Eastern Europe probably has more salience for dissidents
than much of what is happening here. In Hungary, they are wrestling with
the problems of globalism, nationalism and migration and radical
democracy. In a sense, the great fight between globalism and nationalism
is being fought in these former Soviet Bloc nations, so it should have
our attention…

The dinner speaker was James Allsup, who has a hug YouTube following.
I’ve been to a lot of events for all sorts of things and I can count on
one hand the number of time I paid attention to a dinner speech. By that
stage, I’m tired and ready for a nap. The Allsup speech was great and
had my attention throughout. He’s only 23, but handles himself like a
veteran on stage. Unlike Nick Fuentes, it seems perfectly natural. I
really enjoyed listening to his talk and he is going to be a big star
ion this scene for years to come…

Generational politics is a little annoying, because the supposed
differences in generations are usually meaningless. Since the middle of
the last century, it is mostly a way to keep whites bickering with one
another, rather than defending their interests as a group. Something
that is different with the next generation though is total comfort with
all media. The Millennials grew up consuming product, but the Zoomers
have grown up producing product. It’s second nature for them.

I think that may be why we are seeing so many you YouTube stars with a
lever of sophistication in their product that seems impossible. Allsup
has done a million video and interview by the time he is 23. [This young
girl](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MijGGzwYG84&feature=youtu.be)
calling herself “Soph” is probably a sign of things to come. Producing
content is as natural to her as breathing, because she grew up doing it.
She’s also consuming content at a rate never seen, so she has
internalized ideas it used to years to grasp. The Zoomers are going to
be different…

It used to be that countries routinely issued visas to people entering
for business or tourism without too much hassle. It was what civilized
countries did. On the other hand, the less civilized discouraged
visitors. Albania was famous for operating like a hermit colony during
the Cold War. Saudi Arabia is known for being unfriendly to visitors,
even their fellow Muslims. The rule of thumb was that the openness to
tourism was a proxy for the degree of order and civility in the society.

Today, America is now routinely rejecting people from Western countries
because of their politics. Greg Johnson’s Canadian video guy was
detained by U.S. customs at the airport and then deported, because he
was coming to AmRen. He was told he violated the terms of his visa,
because he intended to interview people at the event. It is complete
nonsense, but they don’t need a reason to reject someone. He was also
made persona non grata for five years. This is where we are now in
America…

There was a lovely couple from Wisconsin in attendance and we chatted at
length about what we need to do and where we want this thing to go. It
is a common conversation I have with people new to this stuff and I
don’t always have the best answers. I think I may have stumbled upon one
this weekend. I said, “The best thing you can do for the cause is bring
two of your friends next year.” That really is the right answer, when
you step back and look at it. It is our version of “think globally, act
locally.”

Everyone has a role to play, but the most important role is for everyone
in dissident politics to get creative on red-pilling their friends and
family. That means getting together to talk about what works and what
does not work. If everyone at AmRen could convert one friend by next
year, the event is sold out in weeks, not months. If that keeps
happening the thing will not be held in a forest, but on the Capital
Mall. In all matters, it is numbers that matter. First we get the
numbers, then everything else is possible…

To support my work, please
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">subscribe here</a>.
