---
title: "When The Truth Is True"
date: "2019-02-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16382"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16382"
---

In recent times, probably since the Bush years, people we now associate
with the alt-right have claimed that Israel controls American foreign
policy. Anti-Semites, of course, have always made this charge, but
usually without much proof. They just hate Jews and by extension hate
Israel, so claiming American foreign policy is run by Zionists has an
emotional appeal for them. Paleocons and now the alt-right, in contrast,
point to various adventures and neocon statements as proof Israel runs
the show.

Even with an increasing amount of data to support the general idea that
our political class is more concerned with Israel than America, most
people do not believe it. Instead, they look for other reasons that are
more fun and satisfying. Part of it is most white people just do not
want to agree with the anti-Semites on anything. They have been tuned by
generations of conditioning to respond negatively to anything critical
of Jews. Another part of it is the aluminum foil hat stuff about the
deep state.

The gag during the last presidential election about the conspiracy
theories surrounding Hillary Clinton was that it would be easier to
dismiss them if they were not true. That is the issue with the theory
that Israel controls American foreign policy. It would be a lot easier
to dismiss the claims if they were not true. For example, Trump said he
was withdrawing our troops from Syria. Now, all of a sudden, [Trump
says](https://www.haaretz.com/us-news/trump-u-s-will-retain-some-troops-in-syria-for-now-to-protect-israel-1.6902042) he
has changed his mind and we’re staying in Syria because of Israel. Score
one for the anti-Semites.

In his book, Tucker Carlson recounts the fights between the neocons and
the paleocons over Iraq. The neocons publicly argued that the paleos
were anti-Semites for opposing these wars. In private, neocons like Bill
Kristol laughed and said the wars were all about defending Israel. The
neoconservatives hate Carlson with a passion, but they have not bothered
to dispute this claim. Instead, they accuse him of being a shill for
Putin. They concede that he is correct in his recollections.

In fairness, a lot of Americans have been conditioned to put the
interests of Israel above all else, but it is not a majority. Most
people voting democrat are anti-war. The rainbow coalition of non-whites
on the Left has a strong whiff of antisemitism. On the Republican side,
most voters are done with foreign adventurism. It is why no GOP pols
talk about the two-decade long war in Afghanistan. The only people who
support forever war in the Middle East are Evangelicals, who have made
Israel an obsession.

Still, while most Americans would welcome a withdrawal from the world,
most also think helping Israel is a good thing. They see her as the
plucky little country surviving in a sea of hostile barbarians. That is
why Trump blurted out that line about staying in Syria to defend Israel.
He is pretty much a BoomerCon, so his instincts are in-line with the
MAGA hat wearing type who show up at his rallies. They will forgive him
for reversing course on Syria, because they share his general
sensibilities on defending Israel.

That is a good rationalization until you take a look at what is going on
with Tulsi Gabbard, the Hawaiian politician now running for president.
Given the state of the Left and the circus that will be the Democrat
primary, she should be a star. In fact, when she first won office, the
Left was selling her as the future of the party. She is young,
good-looking, heterodox in her politics, without straying too far
afield. She served in the military, which is now a weird badge of honor
for female politicians. She is the female Barak Obama.

Then they started to look past sex and skin tone. Her father is
anti-gay, advocating things like gay conversion therapy. Gabbard herself
was never on-board with the assault on marriage, which makes her a
homophobe on the Left. More important, she was anti-war and not for the
goofy reasons popular on the Left. She opposed the endless wars in the
Muslim world because she thinks they are bad for Americans. Even worse,
she was willing to meet with Assad, Israel’s sworn enemy. That is
unforgivable.

That is why on the day she announced her intention to run for the
nomination, every single big shot in the Democrat party denounced her.
It was so obviously coordinated, it recalled that gag about the Clinton
conspiracies. It was as if they wanted the world to know that they were
reading the lines from a script handed to them by headquarters. Howard
Dean was probably the most amusing. [His
statement](https://thehill.com/homenews/media/425832-howard-dean-to-cnn-all-dem-candidates-qualified-to-be-president-except-tulsi)
on Gabbard suggested that maybe someone was holding his family hostage,
and he was forced to denounce her or else.

It is not just the pols trashing Gabbard. [The
media](https://www.zerohedge.com/news/2019-02-04/tulsi-gabbard-slams-neoconneolib-warmongers-after-nbc-propaganda-exposed)
has been instructed to open up the big guns on her. Here we are a year
from the first voting and the Prog media is spending big money to trash
one of the fifty candidates. It is one thing to start throwing mud at
one of the favorites, but to attack a minor candidate this far out is
weird. The outfit running the shenanigans against Gabbard is in so tight
with the Deep State-Democrat Party nexus, it probably has offices at the
DNC. *New Knowledge* is an arm of the party.

Just to be clear, in case anyone is confused, the phrase “Kremlin
controlled” or “Putin Stooge” is code for anti-Semite. Anytime you hear
the usual suspects linking an enemy with Russia, they are speaking from
tribal interests, not Americans ones. It is why everyone who tumbles out
of the NeverTrump clown car starts hooting about how Putin controls
Trump. Russia is the great bogeyman of the tribe, so the worst thing you
can be is a tool of Russia. We will hear a lot about Gabbard, and her
Russia ties this year.

Again, it is understandable that people would be slow to notice that a
foreign country is dictating American foreign policy. Those anti-Semites
are icky and mean. The conspiracy theorists are weird and creepy. No one
wants to be associated with them. The thing is though, the truth is
true, even if bad people believe it. The truth is, Israel may not
control American foreign policy, but they have a tremendous amount of
influence. Given what just happened in Syria, it is fair to say Israel
has veto power.
