---
title: "The Gaslights Are Lit"
date: "2019-06-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17948"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17948"
---

The Democrats kicked off their year long process to select a party
nominee for the 2020 presidential election and it felt like 2016 all
over again. Instead of watching the debate, which would have been a
horrible way to spend an evening, I scanned Twitter for reactions to get
a feel for how enthusiasts were reacting in real time. This was
something I did in the 2016 during the Republican debates. It turned out
to be a much better gauge for how people were reacting than what was
coming from the media.

Three things were fairly obvious, based on Twitter. One is the Democrat
media was instructed to sell the hell out of Warren, which they tried
hard to do, but Warren gave them little to work with after she read her
prepared lines. What they are going to learn is what people in
Massachusetts know about her. Like all pols, she can read from a script
and seem quite good. On her own, she reveals herself to be quite dull.
Her serious egghead presentation is just an act. She is a
pseudo-intellectual poseur.

Another thing that was made obvious to enthusiasts is that Beto O’Rourke
is just a slacker who has been getting by on his looks. The media likes
him because he has the RFK routine down cold. He knows how to charm
left-wing Baby Boomers. The trouble is, once you get past the horse
teeth and hairstyle, you’re left with a guy who probably spends his free
time reading comic books. He is in politics because it requires the
least amount of effort for the best possible lifestyle. Otherwise, he is
a bum.

The third thing that was obvious reading left-wing twitter is they could
not stop noticing Tulsi Gabbard. The Democrat media was programmed to
ignore her, so they will ignore her, but the lower ranking members, who
don’t get to see the memos from the party, were noticing their hell out
of Gabbard. She was the only candidate who said anything of substance
picked up by the enthusiasts. The rest were judged on style. Gabbard was
noticed because she made valid points about foreign policy.

Just as with the Republican Party, much of the Democratic base is
largely ignored by the party. From this side of the political spectrum,
it is hard to pick up on this problem, as white liberals do seem to
obsess over trannies and foreigners. The truth is, the eventual winner
of this primary will have to appeal to white middle and upper middle
class voters. It’s why Creepy Joe Biden is the leader, despite being
dead. His working-class Joe routine appeals to a very large segment of
the Democratic base.

Forgotten in all the celebration of degeneracy is the large isolationism
vote inside that white voting bloc. It is a peculiar form of
isolationism, as it tarts itself up as sophisticated and realistic, but
in reality it is people who would prefer it if America disengaged from
the rest of the world and focused only on domestic issues. Gabbard, with
her well thought out anti-war positions, is probably tapping into that
vote. She may be the only candidate in the field that is explicitly
anti-war and dovish.

She’s also skeptical of Israel, which is another factor that never gets
discussed, but has always been under the surface on the Left. There was
a time, not so long ago, when anti-Zionism was a popular stance on the
Left. The party leaders may have been co-opted by the Israeli lobby, as
has happened with the GOP, but that skepticism of Israel and support for
the local Arabs remains in the rank and file. Gabbard makes no bones
about being open minded with regards to our unconditional support for
Israel.

Now, after these debates, it is a tradition for Matt Drudge to run a
poll on his site. These polls are not scientific, of course, as if there
is such a thing. The main flaw in these polls is you can vote a million
times if you are that bored. They could filter out repeats based on IP
address, but even so, there is no way to know if the people voting are
Americans eligible to vote. Still, they say something about the
enthusiasm for the candidates or lack of enthusiasm in the case of some.
Gabbard won the poll going away.

Like 2016, where Trump would win these polls hands down, the party media
is reporting an entirely different response. [The
Nation](https://www.thenation.com/article/democratic-debate-warren/)
apparently wrote their reaction pieces in advance. Similarly, the [Daily
Kos](https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2019/6/26/1867596/-Warren-showcases-courage-and-tenacity-on-Night-1-of-the-first-Democratic-debates)
followed party instructions and celebrated the sleepy night for Warren
as a great triumph. The New York Times and the Washington Post are all
aboard the Fake Indian Express as well. Everyone got the memo and they
are busy trying to gaslight the Progressive voters into thinking Warren
is the one.

Most likely, the media will just ignore Gabbard for now. They will no
doubt have been told to celebrate Creepy Uncle Joe as the winner of the
second debate. In case he sexually assaults one of the women on stage,
they probably have been told to have some material on Harris ready. They
have some sidebar pieces ready to tell the faithful that the homosexual
is a rising star in the party. The point is to make sure Sanders gets no
positive press from the debate. This time, he gets taken out early.

What we are seeing is something that does not get noticed on our side.
That is, the Left is almost as angry about their politicians as normal
people. Our side gets mad because the Republicans keep chasing the votes
of people who hate them. Something similar happens on the Left. The old
fashioned pro-working class types have no representation in the party.
The foreign policy doves have no one addressing their issues. Those
aging white ethnics, who supported Sanders last time, have no voice
either.

If 2016 was the year Conservative Inc. finally cracked, 2020 could be
the year Progressive Inc. has its crisis. Like the Republicans, the
Democrats are a party that really only represents the foreign money that
bankrolls its operations. They no longer speak for actual voters.
Someone like Gabbard, who stands out from the crowd by nature, can tap
into the resentment within the ranks, by simply mentioning the many
taboos issues ignored by the rest of the field. She could be the Happa
Trump.

For now, as we saw in 2016, the media will do what it can to gaslight
the voters, by selling the cold turd sandwich that is Biden and Warren,
while carefully ignoring anyone that the party fears. If the result of
these preliminary rounds is rising support for Gabbard, we will see if
the Progressive Industrial Complex really did learn from the 2016
debacle. The gaslights will be on full for the rest of the summer, as
they use all the tools to get the result the oligarchs want from this
election.

Support the media that supports you. Those of us toiling in the
dissident fields can’t do this without your support.
 <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">Five bucks a month</a> is less than the price
is a craft beer.It’s cheaper than a night of gaming with your virtual
friends. Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money to
destroy your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z
Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer">PayPal</a> setup for those who prefer that
method to donate. Thank you for your support!
