---
title: "The Egalitarian Pill"
date: "2019-01-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Greatest Hits
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16254"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16254"
---

There are many reasons to hate libertarians, all of them valid, but the
most compelling reason is their misplaced self-assurance. Libertarians
walk around sure they have gained access to the book of secret
knowledge, while everyone else is staggering around in primitive
darkness. In reality, modern libertarianism is mostly just window
dressing for the oogily-boogily that comes from the Left. Libertarians
start from the same misplaced beliefs about the human condition.

A good example is <a
href="https://reason.com/blog/2019/01/21/does-school-choice-help-students-learn-a"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this post</a> from Reason Magazine
celebrating the start of National School Choice Week. According to
<a href="https://schoolchoiceweek.com/about/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">their website</a>, it is “a week of celebration to raise
public awareness of the different K-12 education options available to
children and families while also spotlighting the benefits of school
choice.” Reason Magazine is a big fan of school choice, so they are
doing some celebrating of their own, promoting various studies about the
glories of school choice.

Nowhere is the magical thinking more evident than in education. While
they do not go so far as to embrace magic dirt theory, like their
progressive counterparts, they do believe in the magic of location. For
example, the first bullet point of that post says, “Eighteen empirical
studies have examined academic outcomes for school choice participants
using random assignment, the gold standard of social science. Of those,
14 find choice improves student outcomes.”

Without reading a single study, anyone with the least bit of math and
science knows that these studies are nonsense. There is simply no way to
net out certain immutable facts about the human condition, to isolate
the effects of choice. For example, smart parents, who invest in their
children, are much more likely to take advantage of school choice
programs than dull or indifferent parents. Parents who like learning and
value knowledge will have kids who like learning and value knowledge.

The only way you could really test these various education theories,
including school choice, is to do a twin study. One twin is ripped away
from his parents and placed with some dullards, who are happy to send
him to the local public school. The other twin is ripped from his
parents and placed in a home with high investment and access to school
choice. Then maybe you could get some useful data. That is monstrous and
no one would ever agree to anything close to it, so it will never
happen.

Another point on the list states, “Ten empirical studies have examined
school choice and racial segregation in schools. Of those, nine find
school choice moves students from more segregated schools into less
segregated schools.” Since we know the number of parents seeking to send
their kids to majority black schools rounds to zero, this is a point
against school choice but the modern libertarian has slugged down the
multicultural ambrosia, so they cannot follow their own arguments here.

Education is a function of biology. Smart kids tend to have smart
parents and dumb kids tend to have dumb parents. Intelligence correlates
with things like parental investment, peer selection, community
involvement and so forth. The reason the kids at the school in the white
suburbs do better than the kids at the ghetto school is they come from
better parents. Their parents built a stronger community, invested in
their children, and passed on their intelligence and social fitness to
their kids.

The amusing part of the whole school choice debate is the left fully
understands what is really going on here. Middle-class white parents
want to avoid subjecting their kids to black kids. They will accept some
of it if the vibrancy has to pass through a filtering mechanism to weed
out the really vibrant. The left gets this, while libertarians and
conservatives are drunk off their own fumes. If there is such a thing as
“systemic racism” it is school choice.

This highlights the fundamental flaw of libertarianism. It is the same
flaw that has made Buckley-style conservatism utterly worthless. They
accept the progressive premise that there is no such thing as biology.
People come into the world as amorphous blobs that can be shaped into
proper citizens with the proper policies. Once you take the egalitarian
pill, the world stops making sense. From there it is an endless search
for the right set of policies to make everyone equal.

The fact is, there is no fixing the schools. John Derbyshire brilliantly
made this point in his global best seller <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Are-Doomed-Reclaiming-Conservative-Pessimism/dp/0307409597"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">We Are Doomed</a>. Tens of billions have
been poured into every conceivable education scheme. None have done
anything to address the achievement gap, and none have done anything to
mitigate the inheritance gap. The best way to become a smart, educated
person is to be born to parents who are smart and well educated. The
schools can do nothing to make this happen.

That does not mean schools should be ignored. Public education, like
public health, is a thing we expect government to manage. Instead of
flushing billions down the drain fighting biological reality, vocational
schools, and the availability of jobs for people on the left side of the
curve is the answer. No society can tolerate an excess of idle men, so
fixing the schools in the ghetto means giving all those idle men
something to do other than make babies, who will follow in their path.
