---
title: "Cartel Land"
date: "2019-10-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18885"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18885"
---

A popular item of discussion in some quarters of the dissident right is
what will be the thing that puts the current regime in crisis. The
instability we see in the West is largely due to the instability of
America. The economy staggers on, but no one really believes it can
continue as currently constructed. The political class is looking like a
pirate ship, rather than orderly democracy. The elites operate
like America is a smuggler’s cove and they are the pirates. Everywhere
you look you see instability.

Usually, the two top answers for what will be the spark that sets the
world ablaze are economic collapse and military failure. Maybe the
economy will spin out of control, resulting in a great depression. This
will be the spark that ignites public anger toward a ruling class they
already despise. On the other hand, maybe a great military catastrophe,
something like the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_the_Teutoburg_Forest"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Varian Disaster</a>. This will
destroy the America military reputation and the order that depends upon
it will begin to unravel around the globe.

Another possibility is something small that at the time seems
insignificant, but in the long run turns out to be an inflection point.
There is the trajectory before the event and the trajectory after the
event. A great example of an event that was interpreted one way at the
time, but was later seen as a great turning point was the Roman defeat
of Carthage and Corinth. The consequences of these two victories changed
the trajectory of Rome, creating the conditions for the shift from
republic to empire.

If we are looking around for some small event, or seemingly small, that
could turn out to be an inflection point today, the <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/major-gun-battle-in-mexico-pits-security-forces-against-el-chapos-son/2019/10/17/c28d174a-f149-11e9-89eb-ec56cd414732_story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Mexican failure to deal with
the Sinaloa cartel</a> this past week is a good choice. The operation by
the Mexican government to arrest Ovidio Guzmán López, the son of former
drug kingpin Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzmán, and then turn him over to the
U.S, may be more than a typical Latin bungle. It has revealed that
Mexico is a failed state, largely controlled by large criminal cartels.

At some level, even the dullest member of the America foreign policy
elite understands that Mexico is not a normal country. The Mexican
government does not have control of its territory. Much of the
population is ruled over by local warlords, who operate various criminal
trades. Some of those warlords wear expensive suits and show up at Davos
to party with the global elites. The vast manufacturing and distribution
operations in Mexico are there because global business can operate there
outside the law.

From the perspective of global business and the flunkies they employ in
our government, this lawlessness has been a boon, but it comes with a
price. That was made clear last week when the Sinaloa cartel forced the
Mexican government to hand back their leader. If you live in Mexico, you
now know who is actually in charge of that part of Mexico. More
important, the Mexican government and the cartel now know who is in
charge and they know the other side knows too. It was clarifying.

Well, it should have been clarifying. Judging from the reactions of
official Washington, it appears they barely noticed. In the long run,
this staggering ignorance of what is happening just over the border may
be the most important item of this age. While serious-faced politicians
lecture us about the need to build a wall between Syria and Turkey, we
have a new Afghanistan forming up to our south. Like Afghanistan, Mexico
is now run by warlords, willing to do business with anyone.

The stupidity of the American ruling class will no doubt result in doing
the dumbest thing possible in Mexico. That’s helping the Mexican
government assassinate and arrest some leading cartel figures. Rather
than address the problems of Mexico, it will be an effort to maintain it
as a free zone for well-connected pirates to operate outside the law,
but with more compliant warlords in place. The result will be an
acceleration into anarchy and eventually the collapse of Mexico as a
country.

Killing the local warlords was a strategy American employed during the
War on Drugs in the 1970’s and 1980’s. Most urban areas were run by a
local heroin kingpin, who controlled the drug trade in the city. He also
controlled the people in the drug trade, which meant limiting the street
warfare. The urban black population fell back into the normal pattern of
governance. This meant big man rule, where the heroin kingpin operated
like a local chieftain. He kept things under control.

In order to look good on television, the authorities decided to combat
the drug problem by arresting these local drug kingpins. That allowed
them to make flashy arrests, where they would display stacks of drugs,
cash and guns. This, of course, was about getting bigger budgets by
gaining public support for their efforts. The result was a busting up of
these local cartels, but they shattered into thousands of small gangs.
The result was the urban warfare we still see today. A place like
Baltimore is a tribal war zone.

Turning large swaths of Baltimore into a no-go zone is easily
overlooked, as people can just move away and avoid it. The same is true
of the Middle East. As we have seen, the occasional exploding Mohamed
has not caused the public to turn on the ruling class in great numbers.
Mexican cartels taking over American towns and turning cities into war
zones would not go overlooked. That is what’s coming as the American
ruling class tries to maintain Mexico as a free zone for their pirate
buddies.

On the other hand, if there are some sober minded people left in the
American ruling class and they wake up to what is happening to our
south, it could be the turning point in the ruling elite. The collapse
of Mexico could force the American ruling class to sober up and start
acting like a ruling class. That means protecting the interests of the
people over whom they rule, by making sure the ruling class always has
the public interest at the forefront of their mind. We become our
greatest ally again.

The future is not written, but for those who like to think about what
comes next, what bookends this interregnum, the <a
href="https://worldview.stratfor.com/article/tracking-mexicos-cartels-2019"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">chaos of Mexico</a> is a good
study. It is that reality which will not go away if our rulers stop
believing in it. At some point, they either address it and solve it or
it forces a change in rulers. There’s simply no way the public will
tolerate the chaos of Mexico spilling in their cities and towns. That
means the rulers, if they wish to remain rulers, will not be able to
tolerate it either.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
