---
title: "Better Human Capital"
date: "2019-01-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16324"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16324"
---

Are people better today than in the past? The answer says more about the
person answering it than anything else. The cosmopolitan globalists will
argue that people are better today, overall. The cynical critics of the
current arrangements will go the other way, pointing out that people are
dumber. In other words, the answer usually has to do with your view of
the neoliberal order, rather than any factual considerations. The
winners are happy while the losers are unhappy.

There are practical ways to think of the question. Steve Pinker looked
at [interpersonal
violence](https://www.amazon.com/Better-Angels-Our-Nature-Violence/dp/0143122010)
over the ages, using it as a proxy for human progress. His assumption is
that coming to a violent end is bad. Therefore, if fewer people come to
a violent end, it means there are fewer violent people in society. His
analysis shows that violence within western societies has been in steady
decline. He also points out the decline in the celebration of violence
in society. The conclusion is we are getting better.

The trouble with that sort of analysis is it starts with a subjective
definition of better, when nature may have other ideas. The point of
life for all creatures, including humans, is to reproduce. As the saying
goes, life is built for speed. Get to sexual maturity as quickly as
possible, reproduce and after that it is all gravy. It is why humans
evolved some brutal responses to diseases that strike the young. Malaria
is an obvious example. The risk of an ugly death in adulthood is worth
the risk in order to reach sexual maturity.

Therefore, fertility rates are a pretty good proxy for measuring the
health of a species, which is why biologists use them all the time. If a
type of finch stops laying eggs, biologists will assume something bad is
happening to the species. Whites, the engine of human material progress,
have seen their fertility rates collapse. The fertility rate for
Africans is rocket high. A biologist would look at those realities and
conclude that the former is in trouble, while the latter is flourishing.
Better may not be better after all.

Another way of looking at the question is from the perspective of the
emerging data from ancient DNA. Until recently, what we knew about the
intelligence of people in the past was speculative. Aristotle was
obviously a brilliant person, but how smart were the people growing
olives? Were they smarter than the people working at one of Amazons
distribution centers? The SAT scores for Athenian farmers have been
lost, so we have no way to compare their scores to those of their
analogs in our society.

The assumption has been that modern people must be smarter, as we live
in technologically advanced societies. [The
data](https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2019/01/29/space-and-time/) coming
in from genetics says the opposite is most likely true and there is a
very good chance the data from ancient DNA will confirm it. As Cochran
says, we have known for a while that people are getting dumber, but no
one has been able to point to hard evidence of it. Now there is hard
evidence for a relatively recent decline in European IQ. We will soon
know where moderns stand on the IQ scale.

Of course, this all leads to the question of what defines “better” when
it comes to human capital. Those Africans breeding like bunnies are a
bit smarter than previous Africans due to better nutrition and medicine.
They are still a full standard deviation dumber than Europeans and
Asians. From the perspective of biology, their fertility rates suggest
they are more fit than their childless counterparts to the north. Maybe
nature is telling us something about what really matters in the game of
natural selection.

On the other hand, maybe the selection pressures in the post-scarcity
world are different in ways not yet understood. If the correlation
between education and low-fertility is what we are told, it would have
shown up a long time ago. It used to be smart people who got rich, and
they had a bunch of kids. Now, rich people claim to be smart, and they
avoid having children at all. Perhaps in a highly automated,
post-scarcity world, general intelligence is not much of an asset at
either end of the social structure.

Interestingly, if this is even somewhat true, it supports the
observation that cognitive abilities did not evolve equally around the
globe. This would explain the differences in measured intelligence. In a
place with lots of naturally available food, but lots of predators,
being smart is not as big an edge as being quick. In a world of
high-scarcity, low time preference and the ability to plan ahead are
important. The post-scarcity, technological society is a grand
experiment demonstrating this in real time.

That brings us back to the initial question. Is the human capital of
today better than the human capital of the past? The answer is probably
yes and no. The populations with low fertility could be obsolete, to be
replaced with low-IQ Africans. Alternatively, they could be in the midst
of a change to better equip them for the post-scarcity world. On the
other hand, maybe the formerly high IQ populations unleashed
environmental changes that will keep lowering intelligence unto this
high-tech society collapses.

Maybe what is really going on is a weird race to the finish line. On the
one hand, human intelligence is declining as automation takes over more
and more tasks. On the other hand, the robots are getting smarter and
will one day function as our caretakers. The race is to see if the
robots get to that point before we run out of smart people able to
create the artificial intelligence and super-intelligent robots. If we
get too dumb too fast, the future may be primitives living in the
wreckage of formerly high-tech societies.
