---
title: "Revolt of the Machines"
date: "2019-02-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - HBD
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16480"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16480"
---

One of the great unanswered questions in science is how the first
building blocks of life arose from the primordial soup of early earth.
It is believed that before even the simplest of life forms existed,
earth was something like a thin stew that was getting thicker as more
complex chemicals formed. At some point, and no one knows how, the first
DNA molecules formed. The prevailing theory is that the first genetic
molecule was a primitive form of RNA, which evolved into more complex
RNA and then DNA.

No one knows how this could happen only that it happened. The proof of
which is all around us, including in the mirror. Life exists and it is
based in DNA. Further, RNA is created from DNA to put that information
to work, like controlling the creation of proteins and performing other
chemical functions. How DNA became the code of life, while RNA, its
predecessor, became its tool, is a great mystery in science. It is the
question J.F. Gariepy tackles in his book [The Revolutionary
Phenotype](https://www.amazon.com/Revolutionary-Phenotype-amazing-story-begins/dp/1729861563/).

Gariepy or “JF” as he is known by his fans, is an enigmatic [YouTube
personality](https://www.youtube.com/user/JFGariepyVideo), known for his
willingness to talk with anyone. He has had everyone from science
deniers to holocaust deniers on his show, as well as lots of normal
people. His YouTube career is recent, as until 2017 he was a
neurobiologist and post-doctoral researcher at Duke University’s
Institute for Brain Sciences. In this book, he endeavors to explain the
origin of life 4 billion years ago and predict the end of DNA-based life
on earth.

One of the challenges facing writers of science books for a general
audience is that they must first simplify the presentation. It is not
that the audience is dumb, but that they are unfamiliar with the jargon
and unfamiliar with the way people in science communicate information
through mathematics. A book full of complex proofs and splatter charts
is not going to be popular with most readers. Gariepy gets past this
first obstacle by sticking with a straightforward narrative format that
is easy to follow.

The second challenge for science writers is to follow the old rule about
essay writing that kids learn in school. The book should always be like
a woman’s swimsuit; big enough to cover the important parts, but small
enough to keep it interesting. This is probably a good rule for all
writing in this age. Thanks to the internet and cable television,
everyone’s attention span has collapsed. Gariepy gets past this hurdle,
as the book is just 138 pages and written in a brisk style that makes
for easy reading.

The question is, of course, does Gariepy deliver on his promise to
explain the origin of life and how it will end. The answer is an
unequivocal maybe. On the positive side, he does a very good job of
explaining one possible narrative for how primitive RNA evolved into RNA
and then DNA. He offers up an interesting theory as to how DNA came to
be the master and RNA the slave, which is an important event in the
history of life. The presentation here is a nice primer for the general
reader on the basics of genetic theory.

What really works here is his use of simple concepts that he stacks
together to explain more complex ideas. For example, describing the
relationship between your genes and your body as something like the
relationship between a machine operator and the machine, is useful in
understanding why our bodies will evolve over time. Our body is there to
serve our genes, so any innovation that is better for our DNA is
adopted, while changes that are not useful are discarded. Our body is a
vehicle for DNA.

The negative here is that the language and analogies do not always work.
Using the office printer to explain how gene mutation works is clever
but calling it a trickster printer will give the American reader the
wrong impression. The same is true for his use of the phrase “fool
replicator.” This is probably a language issue, as Gariepy is French.
The word trickster and fool have different connotations to French
speakers than they do to English speakers, especially Americans, who
think tricksters and fools are immoral.

Another complaint about the book, and one of the trade-offs with
brevity, is it assumes the reader has recently read Daniel Dennet and
Richard Dawkins. In fact, it is probably a good idea to read The Selfish
Gene before reading this book, as Gariepy refers to it extensively in
the first third of the book. Again, this is the trade-off that comes
from brevity and summarizing the material for a general audience. In
this case, it is a minor complaint, and it does not ruin the book or
invalidate his arguments.

The final complaint about the book is that he spends 80% of the text
explaining the transition from simple RNA molecules to the complex
DNA-based life. That is about 100 pages, which is a great short primer
on a difficult to understand subject. The rest of the book is a dash to
the finish line, explaining how the rise of artificial intelligence
spells the end of DNA-based life. There is a strong impression that this
part was rushed in order to get the book done and ready for sale. The
book sort of ends with a thud.

Without giving too much away, Gariepy argues that RNA used DNA as sort
of a bank vault for its code base. When it needed to copy itself, it did
so from that copy stored in the DNA molecule. Eventually, the DNA
molecule was able to replicate itself, without help from its RNA master.
This set off a battle between RNA and DNA, which DNA won, turning RNA
into its servant. This same process is about to happen with artificial
intelligence, as AI becomes self-aware and able to self-replicate.

That sounds like the premise of a lot of science fiction stories, but it
is both an interesting entry point to understanding artificial
intelligence and the dynamic between environment, humans, and man’s
ability to alter his environment. There is enough there for another book
and maybe that is the plan, but Gariepy only gives it about twenty
pages, and it felt very rushed. Given his YouTube audience, most of his
readers are more interested in how life ends, rather than how it begins.
They will undoubtedly feel a bit cheated.

Overall, the first half of the promise, to tell the story of how life
began, works pretty well for the intended audience. It is not a research
paper or a bold new hypothesis to explain the origin of life. It is more
of a summary of current thinking in a style that the general reader can
follow and understand. The second promise could have worked, but it
needed a fuller treatment than what Gariepy delivers. Otherwise, it is a
book worth reading, if you have an interest in evolutionary biology or
the origins of life on earth.
