---
title: "The Biden Buggy"
date: "2019-06-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17831"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17831"
---

In 2016 there was the Trump Train, now we have the Biden Boat or, given
his age, the Biden Buggy. According to all of the polls, even those in
keys states, Joe Biden is the clear favorite to win the nomination. He’s
polling at around 30%, which is twice his nearest rival. In fact, the
latest batch has him with three times the support of Bernie Sanders, who
has been in the second seat for a year now. Everyone else is in single
digits, bobbing up and down with the news cycle.

Of course, there is a lifetime between now and the first votes. For a
guy like Biden, who is pushing eighty, that could be literally true. He
is by far the oldest man to run for the nomination and would be the
oldest man to enter the White House if he won. Trump set the record when
he was elected in 2016, but Biden is a decade older. It remains to be
seen if the media will allow that to be an issue. Right now they seem to
be tasked with selling good old Uncle Joe to the voters, as the sensible
antidote to Trump.

In fairness, Biden really is the Democrat version of Trump. They appeal
to the same demographic. Biden has been pitching himself as “working
class Joe” for close to a century now. It’s his go-to line whenever he
is out campaigning. He tells voters about how everyone has known him as
“working class Joe” or sometimes he uses the phrase “lunch pail Joe.”
The fact that he has never done a minute of honest labor in his life
never seems to matter. The old working class whites like it.

Like Trump in 2016, Biden is the last dance for a demographic about to
disappear over the horizon. Trump found a way to win over voters, who
remember back to All In The Family with fondness. Either they remember
their dad as the Archie Bunker type or they were the Archie Bunker type.
Biden is making a similar appeal, but with a decidedly romantic tone
that recalls the Democrats past, when they talked about a chicken in
every pot and two cars in every garage. When the party was white and
male.

While Democrats still need white votes, they are now the party of
non-whites and increasingly the party of anti-whites. That’s probably
what has all those old union types scrambling onto the Biden Buggy. They
are tired of having to vote for someone that hates them. They are tired
of pretending they are embracing their dispossession. It’s their last
chance to have one of their guys at the top of the ticket. That’s why
<a href="https://apnews.com/5b57473cfcda44e4b35c8a40759a26fc"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">stories like this</a> work for
Biden. It sells to working class whites.

The risk, of course, is that this sort of talk will alienate black
voters, who now make up 25% of the Democrat primary. Biden is considered
a righteous honky, because he was Obama’s Stepin Fetchit for eight
years, but blacks are notoriously fickle. If Harris can get some
traction, they could easily abandon Biden for her out of racial loyalty.
This stuff can also rustle the females, who are already worried about
Joe and his habit of sexually assaulting women in public. Women are
close to 60% of the Democrat vote.

Even so, the Biden bubble fits with a pattern in Democratic politics
that goes back to the Reagan years. They looked at Reagan’s victories
and concluded they needed to go Hollywood, which they did in a major
way. The modern chat show format, for example, is a result of Clinton
era media strategy. After Bush won in 2004, using a quantitative
approach to reaching voters, they went all in on “big data” to elect
Obama. After Trump beat Clinton in 2016, they will look for their Trump
this time.

One challenge for team Biden is how to run as the nostalgia candidate,
while pretending to be the candidate of the future. Given that his
future will end at any minute, his credentials on the issue are not very
good. More important though, the Left is about the glorious tomorrow,
not the forgotten past. Look at their successful leaders and they were
young and endlessly yapping about the future. Joe Biden may be as old as
JFK, but he is no John Kennedy. He’s more like Walter Mondale.

The obvious challenge for Biden is his age. In his prime, he had a habit
of saying nutty things that sunk his previous presidential ambitions. As
he has aged, the tendency to say crazy old guy stuff has gotten out of
hand. Like the habit of feeling up girls on stage and smelling their
hair, his public utterances make people uncomfortable. For a man pushing
eighty, weird public statements and moments of confusion will give even
the most enthusiastic Baby Boomer pause.

His handlers have kept him under control, for the most part, by keeping
him away from the public and the press. The media will do what the party
tells them, but it is not hard to imagine some young ambitious activist
working for the Post or the Times accidentally asking Biden the wrong
question. At the debates next week, you can be sure the other candidates
will try to get the old guy off his game, hoping he has a senior moment
that will remind the public he was in office before they were born.

This is why the <a
href="https://www.politico.com/story/2019/06/19/democratic-establishment-elizabeth-warren-1369874"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">media activists</a> are
pumping air in the tries of the Warren campaign. She is the fall back
candidate for when the party has to take the keys away from the Biden
Buggy and put Uncle Joe in a home. She is no spring chicken herself, but
her handlers are not wiping oat meal off her chin either. Her new
economic pitch is aimed at the same old white people Biden is attracting
with his lunch pail Joe act. That and she can appeal to angry single
women and the snotty cosmopolitans.

It speaks to the age that both parties in the 2020 presidential election
will be running explicitly nostalgic campaigns. Trump is a crude reboot
of the Reagan years. His new slogan, Keep America Great, is a call back
to the Morning in America ads Reagan used on his re-election campaign.
Biden and maybe Warren are running as throwbacks to another age, when
Democrats were the party of working class whites. Despite the
celebrations for the browning of America, everyone seems to miss the old
days.

If you care about your community and want to support those working hard
on your behalf, consider supporting my work by donating the price of a
beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">Five bucks a month</a> is not a lot to ask.
Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money to destroy
your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC
P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I know have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer">PayPal</a>setup for those who prefer that
method to donate. Thank you for your support!
