---
title: "The Unraveling Right"
date: "2019-06-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17649"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17649"
---

The defining feature of American Conservatism since the rise of Buckley
and National Review is that it managed to conserve nothing. In fact, the
movement was largely born out of the Civil Rights Movement, in which the
New Right, as they were called then, conceded the right of free
association to the Left. From that point forward, conservatism in
America was mostly just a modification of Progressivism, often following
it around like <a
href="https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/826117-it-may-be-inferred-again-that-the-present-movement-for"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a shadow</a> from one new
radical idea to the next.

The truth is, whatever Buckley imagined for his movement in the
beginning, it was soon turned into a partner of Progressivism. In
exchange for a free hand in dealing with the Soviets, the Right would
allow the Left to dominate domestic policy. It may not have been
explicit decision, or even a conscious one, but that was the result. The
Reagan years are a great example. The revolution cultivated the
seedlings of global finance and presided over a massive military
buildup. Domestically, it did nothing.

In fairness, the Buckley project did bring about the end of the Cold
War, which few people imagined was possible in the 1960’s. Into the
Reagan years, most people in the West thought the Bolsheviks were on the
right side of history. The trouble was, this habit of acquiescing to the
Left on domestic matters had become a part of the Right’s fabric. When
it was time to turn back to domestic policy, they could not do it.
Instead they allowed themselves to be tricked into a new foreign
adventure by the neocons.

That is a useful way to think of the last thirty years. Buckley and his
minions did such a great job of defining conservatism as the sidecar of
Progressivism, it was incapable of adapting to the post-war reality.
Instead, it put all of its energy into finding a new foreign policy
cause to fill the void of fighting communism. Meanwhile, the Left was
fully prepared to spend the peace dividend on outlandish social
experimentation like open borders and homosexual marriage. The Right
just stood by and watched.

The fact that Conservative Inc., the material and monetary manifestation
of Buckley’s project, still staggers on, despite losing most of its
relevance and audience, is a testament to institutional power. People
get used to worshiping at the same place, so even when the place no
longer deserves their worship, they return out of habit. For the same
reason the Episcopal Church still exists, National Review still
functions as a flagship for a movement that is long past its expiration
date.

A sign that this hollow institution sits atop an equally hollow movement
is this recent exchange between someone calling himself Sohrab Ahmari
and David French, of National Review. <a
href="https://www.firstthings.com/web-exclusives/2019/05/against-david-french-ism"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Ahmari makes a case</a>
familiar to most on the dissident right, that conservatism has conserved
nothing. More important, its very design is to ensure that it can never
win a fight with the Left in the culture war. It is the designated
opponent that puts on a good show, but in the end concedes the game to
the Left.

<a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/05/david-french-response-sohrab-ahmari/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The response</a> from David
French is an amusing confirmation of the most biting criticism of
Conservative Inc., in that it combines a total lack of self-awareness
and a dog’s breakfast of empty slogans. The fact that the French essay
is heavily decorated with advertisements and pleas for money just adds
to the humor. His argument is that making a bunch of ritualized noises
about the past, while being rolled in the Culture War, is the definition
of conservatism. Everyone agrees with this.

What Ahmari builds his case on is the observation that people like
French invest heavily in maintaining a set of rules on the Right that
prevents victory. That is, a primary activity is endlessly reminding
people that to be conservative is to live by a set of principles. These
principles control how the Right engages the Left. On the other hand,
the Left is happy to help the Right enforce these rules, as the Left
never plays by any rules. It plays to win, so these principles become a
road map for winning every battle.

This is a certain type of sandwich, where normal white people are faced
with an impossible dilemma. They can lose their moral purpose by
breaking their own rules, while beating the Left, or, they can hold onto
their principles and lose. That’s the role of people like David French.
He’s like the Army chaplain, who convinces the troops to embrace
pacifism. Alternatively, he is the Tokyo Rose whispering subversion into
the ears of white people, undermining their will to fight.

The response by the rest of Conservative Inc. to the Ahmari post is
revealing, in that it is not much of a defense of French or Conservative
Inc. <a
href="https://reason.com/2019/05/31/david-french-sohrab-ahmari-conservative-libertarian/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Reason Magazine</a> babbles
about individual liberty while calling Ahmari names. The fact that the
core of the Ahmari post is that the individualism fetish is why the
Right keeps losing is lost on the writer. Winning the culture war
requires collective action with a collective purpose. There can be no
individual liberty without first defeating the Left and retaking the
public space.

Probably the most illuminating defense of French comes from <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/05/defense-of-david-french/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Michael Brendan Dougherty in
National Review</a>. His post reads like it was coerced. There is a long
meandering summary of the recent history of conservatism. The actual
defense of French boils down to “he is worthless and his approach is
laughably stupid, but hey, he’s a nice guy and is popular with my boss.”
Conservatism is mostly just logrolling now, so this “defense” is a good
example of why National Review is nearing an end.

The lesson to be drawn from the failure of conservatives, for those who
will take up the culture war, is that principles are about what you
won’t do. They are prohibitions on your behavior. When you engage the
enemy with a long list of things you will not do in the fight, you have
provided him with a road map to victory. That’s been conservatism for
the last thirty years. Whether conscious or unconscious, their cherished
principles have amounted to nothing more than a primer for how they will
throw the fight.

The fact is, principles are worthless unless you can enforce them. The
whole point of having principles is to legitimize the maintenance of
order after the victory. Logically, the first step in a principled
agenda is to win. That requires collective action and a willingness to
play rough, not individualism and a fetish for tone policing. An army of
individualists is a hunting ground for the well-organized. In order to
get anything like a conservative order means white people acting
collectively and doing what is necessary to win.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">please contribute here</a>.
