---
title: "The Bad Humor Man"
date: "2019-08-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18298"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18298"
---

Back in the halcyon days of 2015 and 2016, most white people were
feeling like little kids on a summer day, waiting for the ice cream man.
If you are of a certain age and a certain place, you probably remember
the Good Humor Man. That was the guy in the white uniform driving the
ice cream truck. Kids would hear the sound of the truck coming, stop
what they were doing and run to get money for ice cream. Usually the
truck had a bell or a speaker that played a unique tune.

Of course, these days, the ice cream truck is not operated by a white
guy wearing a spiffy white uniform. Instead, it is operated by a
degenerate, who looks like he just came from the methadone clinic. The
Good Humor brand is now owned by a global corporation called Unilever,
which is run by people that hate you. According to public documents,
Unilever gives all of its political donations to Democrats, because
Progressivism is the religion of the corporate ruling elite.

Putting that aside, the election of Trump was greeted by most white
people as a relief from the rising tide of diversity. Trump was going to
build a wall and drastically limit immigration, and not just illegal
immigration. The worm was finally turning on the use of indentured
servants to displace American workers. He was also going to stop selling
out to cheap foreign labor through trade deals. Trump was the creamsicle
of politics. He was orange on the outside and white on the inside.

Despite what the grifters and cucks of the alt-lite, people like Jack
Posobiec, Bill Mitchell and Mike Cernovich were saying, everyone
understood what Trump meant. He was going to make America white again.
Not in the demographic sense. He was not going to start mass
deportations or bring back segregation. It was that he was going to
bring back the sort of politics associated with white people. That’s
good government, economic nationalism, prudent patriotism and community
awareness.

Here we are three years on and we have none of things he promised.
Instead it has been three years of boasting, considering and looking at,
but no results. Immigration is worse now than when he took office. He
has completely caved to the cheap labor lobbies on the indentured
servant issue. There is no wall and no plan to build one, despite his
boasts to the contrary. Remember those Dreamers? They are still here and
he has done nothing about it. Ditto the anchor baby issue.

The plan-trusters, MAGApedes, QAon suckers and so on will reply that he
has been thwarted by the establishment, so he cannot be blamed. Maybe.
The reply to that is he should have been aware of this from the start.
Maybe if he had been a little smarter about how he went about these
things, he could have won a few fights. Talking and losing is standard
GOP procedure. The reason Trump won is the voters, the white voters,
were tired of all talk and no action. Yet, here we are again.

Even if you want to excuse all of that, and maybe there is a good
argument in favor of doing that, you cannot excuse his stiff-arming of
his own voters. Every day he is on Twitter celebrating black this and
Hispanic that. Of course, he is endlessly going on about Israel, as if
he is the chief rabbi of the country. He seems more conserved with the
welfare of people who will never vote for him than the people who put
him in the White House. He sounds like Jeb Bush or Mitt Romney.

The topper is his constant demands for gun grabbing. There is no issue
more closely tied with white America than guns. When people talk about
self-defense, everyone knows what they mean. When anyone talks about
“gun crime’ everyone knows they mean black crime. If gun ownership and
defense of gun rights is implicit whiteness, then gun grabbing is
explicit anti-whiteness. Trump’s knee-jerk gun grabbing means he is a
lot closer to the anti-whites than he is white America.

Getting back to the analogy at the top. White people thought the relief
they were getting was that creamsicle. Orange on the outside, white on
the inside. Instead, white people are getting a turdsicle, orange on the
outside and full of bullshit on the inside. Some broken promises and
absurd boasting was expected. Everyone understood that Trump was a
flagrant self-promoter and bullshitter. That was the price for getting
some action on things like immigration and trade. That’s not what we are
seeing.

This is where the plan-trusters, MAGApedes, QAon suckers (Yes, QAnon was
a hoax) stop reading and post an angry comment about how he is better
than Hillary. That’s probably true. We can’t know that. Her husband was
better than Bush. By any reasonable measure, Obama was better than Bush.
Let’s pretend it is true and Hillary would have been much worse. The
turdsicle that is Trump is better than the fetid fishsicle that was
Hillary. Ask yourself, is this how you want to be treated?

For as long as anyone reading this has been alive, that has been the
deal on offer to people on the Right, by which we mean most white
people. Your choice is the turdsicle or the fishsicle. Politics has been
nothing but you running up to the Bad Humor Man thinking this time you
might get something you want. Instead, you’re always told the choice is
between two terrible options no one should ever accept. For most white
people, the last three years has been more of the same.

Now, the temptation is to throw yourself down the hole of self-loathing,
despair and Trump-bashing. The remains of the <a
href="http://www.occidentaldissent.com/2019/08/06/white-nationalists-should-declare-war-on-conservatism/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">alt-right</a> have chosen that
course. Richard Spencer sounds like a racist Bernie Bro. Many White
Nationalists are lining up behind
<a href="https://images.app.goo.gl/6HgHHGXXFSnZ66116"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Xena The Warrior Princess</a>.
The error here is these people think if they don’t show up, the Bad
Humor Man will stop coming around. In reality, they will not be missed,
as there is always a long line of normie whites willing to lick the
turdsicle.

The right answer is a point <a
href="https://www.counter-currents.com/2019/08/wignats-whirr-for-war/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Greg Johnson</a> has been
making. Instead of stomping off in a rage, the disaffected Trump voters
need to engage more forcefully with those normies so they stop accepting
the choice on offer. You can’t do that if you are on the sidelines or
joining the other team. Things change when the Bad Humor Man is faced
with a crowd that refuses the choice between the turdsicle and the
fishsicle. When that day comes, he either stops coming around or he gets
better inventory.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
