---
title: "Chasing The Black Unicorn"
date: "2019-03-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-03-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16712"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16712"
---

For at least thirty years and maybe longer, conservatives have dreamed
of turning the black vote against the Left. Few projects have consumed
more of their energy, and few have been as fruitless. The herculean
efforts put into convincing American blacks to vote Republican and
support conservative causes have made things worse, but they keep
trying. In fact, the whole topic is now one of those idiot tests. If you
are a conservative who thinks it is possible to get some of the black
vote, you are an idiot.

Conservatives courting the black vote is one of those things that
suggest the Official Right really is a controlled opposition,
deliberately playing into the hands of the Left. Nixon, who hated the
Left on personal and ideological grounds, was the guy who came up with
the Southern strategy, supposedly a secret racist scheme to win white
votes. He managed to get [32% of the black
vote](https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2015/08/what-nixon-can-teach-the-gop-about-courting-black-voters-121392)
in 1968. Ronald Reagan, who actually did a lot to help black people in
America, simply by being competent, [never
cracked](https://www.nationalreview.com/2011/02/ronald-reagan-and-african-american-kiron-k-skinner/)
the 10% line.

In fact, the Republicans have been unable to break through that 10%
barrier for the last forty years, despite investing billions into
burnishing their anti-racist credentials. They have worked so tirelessly
to win black support, that the meme DR3 is now a hoary chestnut on
social media. Yet, look in the comments of [a post like
this](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/03/03/watch-live-candace-owens-second-blexit-rally-in-richmond-virginia/)
about Candace Owens and you can’t help but wonder if something is being
put into the water of middle-aged white people, causing them to turn
into DR3 zombies.

The strange way in which older whites seem to be hypnotized by the race
issue is not lost on our Progressive rulers. The Washington Post is now
running [puff
pieces](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/magazine/wp/2019/03/06/feature/candace-owens-is-the-new-face-of-black-conservatism-but-what-does-that-really-mean/?utm_term=.9d531dd17398)
on Candace Owens and her Blexit racket. The Left needs conservative
fanaticism on the anti-racism stuff in order for it to remain a useful
weapon. The Owens racket reinforces the argument that racism is the
worst thing ever. All of those dopey white people crying and clapping at
her antics are a barrier between orthodoxy and realism.

Reading through those comments in that Breitbart post, it is tempting to
think they are mostly fake, as they read like the sorts of things
alt-right people post to mock Baby Boomers. Given the age in which we
live, it is entirely possible Breitbart is seeding these Owens stories
with fake comments. America is a no-trust society now, so it is always
prudent to assume what is being presented is false in some way.
Breitbart used to employ Ben Shapiro, who is now an established [pen for
hire](https://thinkprogress.org/ben-shapiro-paul-manafort-rick-gates-robert-mueller-special-counsel-plea-agreement-documents-d4fc04a51e60/),
so anything is possible.

The fact is that the black vote itself is slowly becoming irrelevant.
The official narrative says Obama won on the strength of the black vote
in 2008, but in reality, he won because conservative whites could not
stomach that nut McCain and Progressive whites were over the moon in
love with the magical black stranger from over the horizon. White
liberals were so giddy about Obama, they held Obama parties on election
day. Rank and file liberals really thought he was the messiah. That is
why he won in a landslide.

In 2016, Trump got just 6% of the black vote, but he got a lot of white
people to vote, who had thrown in the towel on Conservative Inc. Hillary
chased that black unicorn around the country, hoping to get blacks out
in decent numbers. While she was doing that, she was ignoring those
Bernie Bros, many of whom switched teams in the general. 2016
demonstrated that the black vote is not worthless, but the cost of
increasing your share of it exceeds the value of it. Courting the black
vote is a net negative.

You can see this in [the
numbers](http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2018/11/08/the-2018-midterm-vote-divisions-by-race-gender-education/)
from the last election. Steve Sailer long ago pointed out that the
better investment for Republicans was to court the missing white share.
This is probably even truer for Democrats. There are millions of ignored
votes sitting at home every election, waiting for someone to court them.
Yet, both parties are allergic to the idea of going after these voters.
Even Trump has now decided to [abandon these
voters](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/03/06/trump-immigration-workers-more/),
the very people who put him over the top, in order to chase the unicorn.

Anti-racism has become the opiate of the masses. One hit of it and the
user falls into a self-righteous, self-satisfied stupor. That is what
these Candace Owens performances are for the attendees. It is like an
opium den for middle-class Baby Boomers. They come in, get a strong hit
of the black unicorn, and suddenly feel free. They are no longer
burdened by the blood guilt of racism. Owens is a [shrewd
grifter](http://www.realclearlife.com/daily-brief/candace-owens-used-run-liberal-leaning-website/),
who used to mock these people, but then she learned there was more money
in selling them the black unicorn.

It will be interesting to see how this unfolds. Secular messiahs have to
deliver the goods at some point. Blacks started to lose interest in
Obama when it became clear he was not going to deliver the good. Owens
will never be able to deliver the absolution her fans crave, so it
stands to reason they will eventually figure out they are being had. On
the other hand, the unicorn works best on the weakest minds. It may be
that they can never break free of it. They will find a new dealer when
Owens moves onto something else.

From the perspective of the Dissident Right, it is probably best to
treat anti-racism like methamphetamine. It is just a thing that is out
there, that must be avoided. There is no eradicating it, but you can
warn normies about the danger. At the same time, when a friend takes a
hit and starts off on a life chasing the black unicorn, you cut ties and
hope they come to a peaceful end. There’s no point in trying to help
them or get them into a facility, as there is no way back from [chasing
the black
unicorn](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMxCi3ljWEg&list=PLpxRTeDLBM_ldLF2Xk8CWj-ViTBjDF8h3).
