---
title: "Monsters and Heroes"
date: "2019-08-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Mass Media
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18328"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18328"
---

A common plot for a heroic tale is one where a people are under threat
from a supernatural monster or maybe a person possessed by great evil.
The king is either unable or unwilling to defend the people from the
threat, so a great hero emerges to do that which the king is supposed to
do. The hero then goes off to face the threat, defeats it thus saving
the people and writing his name in the book of heroes. Probably the
oldest existing version of this is the Old English epic poem Beowulf.

Now, more sophisticated versions of this plot will bring the king into
the story line by exploring the reasons he cannot or will not defend his
people. Maybe the king is playing a double game, where he hopes to
summon the hero, who he sees as the greater threat, in order to get him
killed by the monster. Alternatively, the king is weak or incompetent,
thus he represents failed leadership. His character in the story is a
reminder of the risk of to a people tolerating bad leaders.

Now, with that in mind, fast forward to the current age and consider
what is happening in American public life. For starters, we have an
economic system that cannot be described as anything but predatory. The
issue has become so acute, even <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/families-go-deep-in-debt-to-stay-in-the-middle-class-11564673734"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Wall Street Journal</a>
has had to take note. The reason for the collapse of the America middle
class is well known. The active efforts to suppress wages, while
maintaining a usurious financial system, is draining the life out of the
middle-class.

Again, the reasons for this are fairly well understood and, more
important, we know who is behind the policies causing it. People have
been writing about the financialization of the economy since the 1970’s.
Way back when Wall Street convinced Congress they should auction off the
manufacturing base, analysts on the Right and Left identified the prime
mover behind this phenomenon. The monster that is savaging the people is
well known, yet the king does nothing to defend his people.

Concomitant with the financial collapse of the middle-class has been the
spiritual and cultural collapse. Probably the most symbolic aspect of
this is the opioid crisis, which has put its icy hand on every shoulder
of society. It’s not just an urban thing like prior drug epidemics or a
class thing like crime. Look at the number of high profile people who
ended up in a rehab facility after getting hooked on pain killers. Every
week, the nation’s obituaries are full of stories about opioid related
deaths.

Again, this is not some great mystery. On the one hand, you have people
like the <a
href="https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2017/10/30/the-family-that-built-an-empire-of-pain"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Sackler family</a> who
basically got a license to kill. They used it to flood the nation with
legal drugs and induced doctors to hand them out like candy. Similarly,
the flood of fentanyl from Mexico is well understood. We know who is
doing this to the American people, yet the people in charge barely
acknowledge it. The monster that is savaging the people is well known,
yet the king does nothing to defend his people.

We have spent three years being lectured by our betters about those
clever Russians and their Facebook ads, threatening our democracy. It
was a giant hoax, of course, and we know why the hoaxers perpetuated it.
They were covering up a seditious plot to subvert the 2016 election. The
fact that it was a hoax does not mean there are no threats to the
political order. We know, for example, that the tech giants are
deliberately trying to subvert the democratic processes.

Again, this is not some mysterious thing that is just coming to light.
It has been happening for a long time now. <a
href="https://www.spiked-online.com/2019/07/23/silicon-valley-thinks-journalists-shouldnt-talk-to-nigel-farage/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here</a> we have Silicon
Valley trying to bully British media outlets to not interview Farage. <a
href="https://www.projectveritas.com/2019/08/14/google-machine-learning-fairness-whistleblower-goes-public-says-burden-lifted-off-of-my-soul/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here</a> we have a former
Google exec explaining how his former employer interferes in elections.
What’s happening with these tech oligopolies is not some great puzzle
that has just coming to light. The monster that is savaging the people
is well known, yet the king does nothing to defend his people.

The pattern is unmistakable. Time after time the people come under
threat from a well understood enemy of bourgeois order and time after
time the people in charge do nothing about it. Only the most naive think
the Epstein affair or the massive corruption in the FBI will be
addressed. At this point, everyone knows the plot. The flow of stories
will slow to a trickle and then the whole thing will be forgotten. In
time, Epstein’s plotters will be partying with the FBI plotters at Lois
Lerner’s Vineyard mansion.

The people are under threat by a variety of monsters. It’s not just
Grendel, but Grendel’s mother and the whole extended family. The people
in charge, whether out of fear, avarice or degeneracy do nothing about
these threats. People thought the Orange Knight was the hero, who could
slay the monsters and bring peace to the people, but thus far he has
remained under his desk, posting insults on Twitter. In fact, the king
sees the hero as a greater threat than the monsters that savage his
people.

If our version of this tale is to be recounted in future generations,
the plot will have to take a different turn. Ours will have to be the
version where the people, seeing the king undermine and plot against the
hero, finally realize that the real monster vexing them is the one who
rules over them. Every society is under threat from monsters, often ones
they created or allowed to develop in their ranks. The people who
survive are those who figure it out and either find a hero to slay the
monster or do the job themselves.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
