---
title: "Activity Versus Prosperity"
date: "2019-05-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17563"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17563"
---

An occasional topic on the dissident right is how the popular measures
of the economy have no relevance to the daily lives of people. Andrew
Yang has picked up on this and talks about the need for new measures.
For example, the Gross Domestic Product has its uses, but it says very
little about the life of the typical person. What most of these popular
measures tell us is how much activity there is in the economy, but they
tell us very little about the prosperity of the people, which is really
what matters.

<a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-6904897/Eerie-footage-shows-north-Londons-Billionaires-Row-desolate-mansions.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from the Daily
Mail is a good starting point for thinking about the difference between
activity and prosperity in the economy. The men hired to build these
mansions certainly got employment from the task. They were paid wages to
do stuff, at least until the project was finished. The building of these
mansions certainly added to the GDP and improved the unemployment rate.
Yet, no one would look at the result and say Britain is more prosperous
as a result. In fact, the opposite seems true.

This is because prosperity is not a purely material measure. When Notre
Dame Cathedral burned down, the wealth of the typical Frenchman was
diminished, because a part of his cultural heritage was lost. Economic
activity will increase when they decide to rebuild it, but the result
will not make France more prosperous. In fact, the result will only add
to the cultural loss, as the people in charge will make a mockery of the
original structure. Notre Dame will be another Parisian eyesore.

In fairness to economist, we can measure economic activity, but we can
only sense economic prosperity. The former is like measuring wind gusts
in a storm. The latter is to assess the damage done by the storm. The
mistake is in assuming the former is objective while the latter is
subjective. While true, to some degree, the choice of measures is always
subjective. There is a reason we hear about the unemployment rate every
month, but no one ever discusses the <a
href="https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&amp;source=images&amp;cd=&amp;ved=2ahUKEwivnuvn5bviAhVpw1kKHY_kAhoQjRx6BAgBEAU&amp;url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.stlouisfed.org%2Fpublications%2Fregional-economist%2Foctober-2013%2Fa-closer-look-at-the-decline-in-the-labor-force-participation-rate&amp;psig=AOvVaw3RPWz91q3Tvgcwf8gtYg2C&amp;ust=1559049418617768"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">workforce participation
rate</a>.

The zeal of modern economists for measuring activity is about avoiding
the topic of culture and the prosperity of the people. For example, our
rulers don’t want the people debating whether it is better to pay more
for goods and services provided by a local seller, versus from a global
operator. This is the sort of discussion that leads to debates about who
benefits and why. The people in charge want as many people in the wheel,
running as fast as they can, not thinking about
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Who,_whom%3F"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">who? whom?</a>

Ultimately, while activity has its value, the fundamental focus of a
people is on their collective prosperity. Not the prosperity of a few,
but of the whole. Venezuela is in flux, in part, because it’s overall
increase in prosperity, the last two decades, has not increased the
general prosperity of the people. Granted, outside forces are playing a
major role, but subversion is possible because the people don’t feel
they are benefiting from the system. No one has ever revolted against
prosperity.

In America, social unrest is increasing, despite the increase in
economic activity, because the white population senses a loss in their
prosperity. Would the typical white person pay a little more for
groceries if the stores were staffed with white people and the emergency
room did not look like a Tijuana bus stop? From the perspective of
economics, we would be poorer, but the quality of life would be much
higher. It turns out that the true cost of cheap labor is the prosperity
of the people.

This was always the error made by socialist of various types. Communists
took it the furthest, assuming that humans were nothing more than
economic units. The body count eventually disabused the Soviets of this,
but the damage had been done. It will take generations to undo the
damage of Bolshevism. Similarly, the Chinese have gone down the same
road, thinking activity is prosperity. Their <a
href="https://www.google.com/search?q=chinese+tfr&amp;oq=chinese+tfr&amp;aqs=chrome..69i57.2039j0j4&amp;sourceid=chrome&amp;ie=UTF-8"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">plummeting birth rate</a>
ensures that China will get old long before she gets truly prosperous.

One very important aspect of the great culture war in the West right now
is a debate about activity versus prosperity. Do you want to be a guy in
the ethnostate with less stuff or the guy with the latest of everything
in a deracinated cosmopolitan area? Would you rather have a little less
activity in order to have more of what defines you? The social capital
that is a natural product of homogeneous societies has a value. We gave
it up for cheap product. The question now is how much will it cost to
get it back?

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">please contribute here</a>.
