---
title: "Horizontal and Vertical"
date: "2019-04-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16917"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16917"
---

There are a lot of ways of describing the great debate in the West that
has raged, off and on, since the Enlightenment. The most popular way is
to frame it as Left-versus-Right, even though the definition of Left and
Right has changed significantly over time. Another way is to view it as
traditionalists versus progressives. The former resists change while the
latter embraces it. Of course, there’s always the appeal to nature,
about the natural order of human society, whether we are more like
<a href="https://www.eva.mpg.de/3chimps/files/apes.htm"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">chimps or bonobos</a>.

Another way to think of the great debate in the West, is to think of one
side as the horizontal argument and the other as the vertical argument.
Those on the Left start with the assumption that the natural state of
human society is flat, where human societies are a lattice work of
relationships among equals. Those on the Right look at human society as
a hierarchy, where important social relations are between those above
and below. To both sides of this divide, these arguments are mutually
exclusive.

Starting on the Right, the argument against liberalism since the French
Revolution has been focused exclusively on social hierarchy. At the
bottom are the peasants, who serve a lord, who in turn is a vassal to a
greater lord. This relationship continues up to the very top of both the
secular order and the religious order. In fact, the secular and
religious hierarchy are intertwined, reaching into the heavens. At the
top is God, who is not only served by this hierarchical order, but
created it and maintains it.

This hierarchical understanding of human society was the default until
the Enlightenment, when both the secular and religious conception of
human organization was challenged by a new conception of society. This
horizontal conception sees all humans as fundamentally equal. They are
equal to one another and equal before God. In fact, it is the Christian
conception of equality before God that is the root of this view. If all
men are created in God’s image, they must be equal before God, and
therefore equal to one another.

In practical political terms, democracy is the tangible expression of
the horizontal conception of human society. There can be no greater
expression of social equality than one man one vote. This is why there
is no room for Christianity within a fully democratic society. If God
holds dominion over man, it means the inequality of man is the work of
God, which contradicts the notion of universal equality. The egalitarian
world view has no place for a transcendent God, so God had to be
eliminated.

On the other hand, the peak of aristocratic rule was the ultimate
expression and the Christian West. From the lowest peasant to the
heavens, stretched an unbroken chain of vassal relationships. Every man
in the chain answered to someone and everyone answered for someone. The
exception were the peasants at the bottom were only responsible to their
lord. Equality of any sort is pointless in such an arrangement, as even
equals will have unequal duties and obligations.

To this day, both sides argue for their conception of the world to the
exclusion of the alternative. In the reaction to the French Revolution,
conservative thinkers focused exclusively on the need to for authority
that could only come from hierarchy. Ultimately, a belief in God is what
gave legitimacy and authority to all secular arrangements, as God was at
the top of the nature order. As a result, they could accept no
alternative to the old aristocratic order, where a monarch sat atop the
social hierarchy.

Similarly, to this day the Left cannot accept that there may be a
hierarchical relationship between people within a society. They have
taken this to the extreme of denying basic biological differences
between people, including differences between the sexes. In the French
Revolution, holding up the severed head of the king was the ultimate
expression of the equality of man. In this age, forcing boys to take
hormones and dress like girls is the ultimate expression of sexual
equality. The world is perfectly flat.

Both sides of this great debate are wrong to think each view of human
society is exclusive of the other. A more complete view of human society
includes both the vertical and the horizontal model. The horizontal is
like a spinning disk with a tight core. That core exists around the
vertical axis of hierarchy. The vertical axis is held in balance by that
core. If the core collapses, the vertical wobbles and collapses. If the
vertical becomes unstable, the core becomes unstable and the horizontal
flies apart. Society disintegrates.

There are many explanations for why the old hierarchical order
collapsed, most spectacularly in the French Revolution. The industrial
revolution, changing demographics, increases in population and the rise
of a middle-class are good reasons to explain some of what happened in
France. The fact is, the vertical, that series of hierarchical
relationships became unstable. Once the King was no longer able to pay
his bills, fulfill his obligations, the logic of the system started to
collapse. Without a king, there can be no hierarchy.

Today, as the West reaches the limits of horizontal organization, not
only has the vertical axis of hierarchy been eliminated, the core itself
is beginning to pull apart. Lacking the gravitational force of social
hierarchy and the rituals and ceremonies to enforce it, the core is
drifting away from itself. Instead of centrifugal force pushing
dissimilar elements to the fringe, those foreign elements are free to
pass through the core, increasing its rate of disintegration. As a
result, the system is showing the same instability as 1789.

The question, of course, is whether there is a third conception of human
society that will replace the horizontal once it dissipates. The
argument from the Right is the collapse of the Progressive moral
framework will inevitably lead to a restoration of the old order, where
hierarchy defined social relationships. That’s unlikely as the
ingredients that gave rise to the old order do not exist in the modern
world. Modern western societies lack the human capital to make anything
like the aristocratic order work.

There’s also the question of whether the West will exist after the
collapse of the Progressive moral order. There is a
<a href="http://www.unz.com/article/the-rise-and-decline-of-the-west/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">strong case</a> that the West
is getting dumber, which explains the grip of multiculturalism on the
ruling class. That decline in IQ is being magnified by the waves of
low-IQ populations from over the horizon. We may have reached a tipping
point from which there is no turning back. The future of the West may be
Neolithic people squatting in the ruins of what used to be Western
civilization.

If there is to be a next chapter to the story of European people, it
will require a conception of society that acknowledges the hierarchical
relationships that are natural to man, but also the interlocking
horizontal loyalties and commitments that allows for a strong cultural
core. That means transcending the crude materialism that sprang from the
Enlightenment, but also acknowledging the limits of authority. That
probably means a clear eyed understanding of the nature of man and his
biological origins as a species.
