---
title: "The Diverse War Machine"
date: "2019-08-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18239"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18239"
---

In his book, [At Our Wits’
End,](https://www.amazon.com/At-Our-Wits-End-Intelligent/dp/184540985X)
Ed Dutton uses the space program as an example of how general
intelligence has declined. It’s not a bulletproof example, but more of a
way to think about how declining intelligence impacts a society. Fifty
years ago, America had the collective ability to organize a massive
project like the moon shot. Today, the country lacks the organizational
ability to do a moon shot. That organizational ability is a function of
the general intelligence of society.

Again, it is not the perfect example, but it is a good way to start
thinking about how declining IQ manifests. Fifty years ago when the
nation celebrated the moon landing, everyone, including the scientists
involved, assumed it was the first step in exploring the solar system.
The nation that conquered the world, was now going to conquer the solar
system. Instead, fifty years on, America is a nation being invaded by
[primitive barbarians](https://images.app.goo.gl/W2wqPgBBKJyWXpuN9) and
struggling to keep the [cities from
collapsing](https://youtu.be/Y7zgWoJRDxk).

Another way to think about the impact of both declining intelligence and
the barbarian invasions is to think of the social structures of society
as tools. Things like political systems and government institutions are
the tools evolved by society to address its challenges. Those tools
reflect the intelligence and cognitive complexity of the people who
created them. It’s why things like liberal democracy are not easily
exported to other countries that lack the craftsman to use these tools

Liberia, for example, can adopt the American constitution for
themselves, but remain a backward African nation. The people who created
the American constitution were smart and mostly of northern European
heritage. The average IQ of the colonists was probably in the high 90’s.
The average IQ of Liberia is in the 60’s. Expecting the Liberians to
implement the tools of American political order is like expecting a
child to operate a five-axis CNC machine. It can never happen.

In America, where the smart fraction gets smaller and the average IQ
declines, the process will be different. These tools exist. They were
created and made functional by our ancestors. As we run short of people
capable of operating these tools, they will either be abandoned on
stripped down, so they can be operated by a population no longer able to
run a complex society. The Democratic presidential field is a good
example of what happens when human capital is in decline.

One area to watch is the war machine that was created to be run mostly
by smart white guys with a sense of adventure. Automation and technology
has replaced a lot of human brainpower in the military. The
sophisticated computer systems on ships, planes and weapons makes it
possible for mediocre people to operate them. No one needs to calibrate
machine guns on fighter planes or learn trigonometry in order to serve
in an artillery unit. Computers do the heavy thinking today.

Even so, the war machine needs the organizational intelligence to make
the whole thing function. It also needs a significant number of young
men willing to risk their life to achieve military objectives. Navy
Seals are often portrayed as unsophisticated risk takers, but they are
the smart fraction of the military. The point of the spear is a
combination of intelligence, risk taking and creativity that reflects
the general intelligence of the military and the society that produces
it.

[This
story](https://www.cnn.com/2019/08/01/politics/navy-seals-collin-green-service-members-misbehavior/index.html)
about the problems in the elite services is a sign of things to come.
It’s not just that the number of men available to serve in these units
is in decline. It is the decline in organizational intelligence that is
needed to maintain these units. These units require a leadership stack
above them with the skill and ability to keep these types of soldiers on
edge, but under control. In the multicultural America, the vibrant and
diverse military will not have the human capital to fill these roles.

The military is not about to collapse, but like the space program, it is
less capable, because of declining human capital. The phenomenon of Navy
ships smashing into things is another example of what happens when the
skill of the craftsman falls below that required of his tools. As the
leadership becomes more vibrant and diverse, the ability of the war
machine to function as it was designed will decline. Eventually, the
decline in organizational competence will result in a catastrophe.

The response to this will also be what we see with the space program.
The invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan was probably the last big foreign
adventure for the Empire. The reason the usual suspects have not been
able to start a war with Iran is the growing awareness that the military
is not capable of waging it. America can launch a bunch of missiles and
conduct air strikes, but an actual war with Iran would most likely be
the Varian Disaster of the American Empire.

As we see all over America, the decline in general intelligence will
result in a decline in military capability. The services will become
increasingly vibrant. The leadership will reflect the new Americans that
are pouring over the borders. The combination of the barbarian invasions
and the decline in native intelligence will slowly reduce the military
to an expensive tool no one can operate fully. It will become nothing
more than a very expensive jobs program that no one dares put in the
field.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
