---
title: "The Reality Of AI"
date: "2019-07-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18005"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18005"
---

Every day, we are told the artificial intelligence is not a science
fiction fantasy, but a reality of modern life. Crimes are solved using
AI and the military is supposedly using it to fight the forever wars.
Microsoft regularly runs
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9tucY7Jhhs4"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ads</a> explaining that thanks
to AI, the modern world will run just fine without white people. IBM
goes further, <a
href="https://www.ispot.tv/ad/dDQP/ibm-watson-works-with-tools-you-already-use"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">claiming</a> their artificial
intelligence robots are already running large swaths of the world. The
robot revolution is here and humans are being replaced with machines.

The target audience for these ads is a question, as the people watching
television are not the people deciding whether to use IBM or Microsoft
for the artificial intelligence requirements. It’s an example of how the
custodial state has evolved. These ads are not about moving product or
even improving the image of the firms. It is about conditioning people
to the idea that they are wards of the state. Not only will they have no
role in how their world is managed, they should not even bother thinking
about it.

Of course, there is the matter of the AI itself. Everyone reading this
post has had the experience of seeing ads on every web page, for things
they bought six months ago from an on-line retailer. Maybe you just did
a search and clicked on one of the ad links on Google. The result is
every page that contains ads will display the product to you until you
make the same mistake with a different product. Billions have been
invested in smart advertising on-line yet the robots remain vexed by
your search habits.

Then we have the companies supposedly at the forefront of artificial
intelligence, like Microsoft and IBM. Anyone who has done business with
Microsoft will tell you it is every bit as nonsensical as the
government. Their “partner portals” appear to have been designed by
people who hate Microsoft and their vendors. Then you have IBM, which is
no longer an American company. It is now reliant on slave labor from the
Orient. Most of its workforce is now un-American. It’s mostly a
sweatshop now.

That brings us to the people these tech giants rely upon to write their
code and engineer their products. Talk to people familiar with the code
base of Facebook, Twitter and the big software-as-a-service providers
and you learn it is a house of cards. Most of the code was thrown
together in a rush using cheap labor from the Orient. As a result, the
maintenance costs continue to rise, necessitating more outsourcing to
places with even cheaper labor costs. We’re not far from having African
coding shops.

That assumes this can go on forever. The Boeing 737 Max airplane that is
riddled with so many problems may be a glimpse of the future. According
to the news, they outsourced the coding for the planes “intelligence” to
<a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-06-28/boeing-s-737-max-software-outsourced-to-9-an-hour-engineers"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">programming sweatshops</a> on
the Indian subcontinent. India is a land that struggles to manage basic
sanitation, yet they are relied upon to produce complex software for
complex systems. Perhaps someone should have told IBM’s Watson about <a
href="https://holeinthedonut.com/2017/03/06/bathing-in-the-ganges-varanasi-india/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">what goes on in the Ganges</a>.

The reality of artificial intelligence is that it is not here and it is
not coming. One reason is we really don’t understand human intelligence.
We have some sense of it, as in person X is smarter than person Y. We
have some tests that give us an insight into individual and group
intelligence, but those tests are imperfect. In fact, the so-called
Flynn Effect may be the result of the flaws in testing. We may be
picking up increases in things that are not a great influence on general
intelligence.

When it comes to the biology of intelligence, science has identified
about 50 alleles that negatively or positively affect intelligence.
Think of them like the old dip-switches from the early days of
computing. Some will positively impact IQ if closed, while having no
impact if open. Others will negatively impact IQ if closed. <a
href="https://www.inc.com/samuel-wagreich/the-company-thats-figuring-out-which-genes-make-you-smart.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steven Hsu</a> is involved in
a project that one days hopes to be able to help parents select embryos
for the highest chance of maximum intelligence, based on these
correlations.

The fact is though, we really don’t understand human intelligence or
human decision making very well. Therefore, creating artificial versions
of something we don’t understand is unlikely. What we are calling AI
today is just the result of technological progress in more mundane areas
like disk capacity and bandwidth. We have an over capacity for data
storage and all the bandwidth we need to connect it. That allows for
faster processing of the same old boring tasks we have been performing
for years.

There’s something else that works against the robot revolution. The
smart fraction of the human race is getting dumber, not smarter. This is
increasingly obvious to those who follow politics and current events.
You can just look around your daily life and see that the basics of
society are grinding to a halt in the West. Ed Dutton’s book, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/At-Our-Wits-End-Intelligent/dp/184540985X"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">At Our Wits’ End</a>, goes
into examples and explanations for why we are getting dumber. Smart
people in the West have fewer children and over time the results are
manifest.

Of course, those Western populations have been the smart fraction of
humanity for about 500 years now. The Chinese are certainly smart and
there are a lot of them, but they have other characteristic that make
them a poor substitute. They had 1000 years to take up the role of being
the world’s smart fraction. Instead they created an insular society and
put their smart people at work on astrology, calligraphy and turning the
body parts of exotic animals into aphrodisiacs. They will not be the new
smart fraction.

Then we have the swelling populations of the dumb fraction. Sub-Saharan
Africa is experiencing a population boom, which promises to flood the
West. When people from Congo, the most backward place on earth, are
turning up on the American southern border, it is fair to assume the
West will be overrun by Africans. How many 85-IQ Africans does it take
to sink the West? Detroit and Baltimore suggest a population that
exceeds 25% is about the point where everything turns negative.

The reality of AI is it is mostly an advertising campaign at this point.
What it is selling is the legacy idea of the custodial state. It’s a bit
of the distraction so you don’t notice what is happening in your
communities, workplace and even your family. It’s a campaign for staying
the course and building out the multicultural custodial state that will
solve the problems of diversity. The suicidal polices of the ruling
class will be solved by machines that do not exist and probably will
never exist, because we are ruled by fools.

If you care about your community and want to support those working hard
on your behalf, consider supporting my work by donating the price of a
beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money
to destroy your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z
Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!
