---
title: "Suicidal Stupidity"
date: "2019-07-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17987"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17987"
---

Since the early days of the alt-right, there has been a debate among
dissidents about the utility of street protests. Prior to the
Charlottesville debacle, most people, including the alt-lite types, were
sure it was necessary for right-wing groups to “show the colors” on the
street, even if it meant confrontation with the goon squads of the Left.
Many, of course, were excited by the opportunity to mix it up with
groups like Antifa. The truth is, a lot of guys were attracted to the
alt-right because they wanted the action.

After the Charlottesville disaster, opinion swung the other way. Richard
Spencer soldiered on with his college speaking gigs, but each one was
more embarrassing than the next, as the Left turned them into a violent
circus that was blamed on the alt-right and anyone within distance of
them. The authorities and the media openly sided with Antifa, so these
events became recruiting videos for them. It was black clad street
fighters versus cartoon Nazis, with the black bloc always winning.

Despite the obvious futility of these types of things, there remains a
faction that insists this sort of stuff is useful. A group calling
itself Patriot Prayer holds street events in Portland Oregon, where they
are pummeled by well-organized Antifa gangs, supported by the police and
the mayor. This past weekend, they had a rally where a small number of
them got <a
href="https://www.portlandmercury.com/blogtown/2019/06/29/26726081/alt-right-antifa-cops-and-milkshakes-clash-in-downtown-portland"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the hell beat out of them</a>
by hundreds of Antifa. An <a
href="https://www.theblaze.com/news/more-brutal-video-portland-antifa"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">old man was beaten</a> with
crowbars and an <a
href="https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/antifa-attack-portland-andy-ngo-portland-proud-boys-alt-right-a8981331.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Asian homosexual</a> was
doused with some sort of chemical.

Of course, the internet was full of right-wingers, mostly the goofy
civic nationalist types, demanding sympathy for what happened. It was
the usual stuff, accusing the Left of being the real fascist enemies of
freedom. It is just another form of the hand-wringing we would see from
the Buckley crowd after they lost another fight with the Left. It is an
effort to turn failure into noble suffering. As someone one Gab put it,
it is just failure theater that makes the Left look good and the Right
look like losers.

Frankly, there should be zero sympathy for the people getting beaten at
these events, as they deserve the beating. If someone walks into a biker
club and starts challenging the bikers on their home turf, no one would
be shocked if the bikers beat the crap out of the idiot. In fact, most
people would assume the guy had it coming. The same applies to these
stupid street protests like the one in Portland. These people are
begging to be assaulted on camera by Antifa, so they get what they
deserve.

More important, they are functioning as the willing stooges of Antifa.
Without some right-wing goofballs there would be no reason for the riot.
If they did riot, they would be blamed for it and the media would be
forced to report the truth, at least some of the truth, about the people
involved. With the rental clowns from the Right, the whole show can go
on according to the script. It becomes one long recruiting video for
Antifa, which ends up looking like the place to go if you are young and
angry.

This is an extension of a larger fight among dissidents, between the old
white nationalist types and the younger, smarter activists and thinkers,
who have entered the space over the last decade. The old school types
like the street brawls for personal reasons, but they insist their old
tactics are the only tactics. These are the people who insist on being
public, self-doxing and adopting taboo iconography. These are the guys
who say, “if you’re are going to be called a Nazi, you may as well be
one.”

The last part, of course, is just surrendering to the Left. Once you
allow the Left to define the terms, they control the language. Once they
control the language, they control the public morality and you have
lost. Oddly, this is the same basic mistake the Buckley types have been
making for generations. The result is that the old white nationalists
were never more than the organ grinder’s monkey for the Left. When lefty
needed some cartoon Nazis, he would whistle and these guys would
perform.

The idiocy of this stuff should be obvious, but it persists for a
reason. Despite generations of failure, young men are attracted to these
tactics because they offer some adventure and excitement. Even while
getting humiliated by Antifa, there is a sense of fraternity that has a
timeless appeal. Of course, it helps that the Left has evolved to
encourage this behavior, as it furthers their interests. They have
become adept at conjuring this sort of street theater and turning it
into propaganda.

That said, it is exactly why charging into a left-wing stronghold in
order to be pummeled into submission is suicidal stupidity. On the one
hand it plays right into the familiar narrative the Left has used for
generations to control white people. This is their game and they play it
well. On the other hand, it suggest that dissidents are no better than
the Antifa street thugs. Fair or foul, people judge you by the company
you keep and those pictures of street brawls are what normal white
people see on television.

Activism of any sort is about encouraging your side and discouraging the
other side. If your efforts encourage the other side, they are always
bad for your side. Making the enemy stronger is never good. On the other
hand, activism that makes your side stronger, outside the sight of the
enemy is the best, as it leaves them unprepared. By definition, the
sorts of street theater we saw in Portland should be avoided. In fact,
it should be assumed they are staged by the Left to serve the ends of
their activism.

If you care about your community and want to support those working hard
on your behalf, consider supporting my work by donating the price of a
beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money
to destroy your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z
Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!
