---
title: "A Future of Cults & Subcultures"
date: "2019-07-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18187"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18187"
---

In modern usage, the word “cult” is entirely negative. It conjures the
image of a strange religious group or maybe a charismatic madman
claiming to be Jesus. In the former case, the group will have unusual
beliefs, isolate themselves from the rest of society and maybe prepare
for some prophesied event. Jim Jones or David Koresh are what comes to
mind for most people in the latter case. Of course, there’s always the
example of the suicide cult, which gave us the expression “pass the
Kool-Aid.”

The word “cult” comes from the Latin word *cultus*, which meant the care
owed to a deity, shrine or temple. In the ancient world, cults were
common. They could be built around maintaining a particular shrine,
which had been built for a deity, a great hero or even a legendary
event. The people in the cult maintained the shrine and served the needs
of pilgrims. The same was true of temples and even churches. In the
ancient world, cults were just a normal part of everyday life.

This was true outside the Roman world, as well. For example, the Vikings
did not have a word for what we would call religion. Instead, they had
words to describe the public cult, to which everyone belonged, and words
for the private cults that people maintained in their homes and
villages. The public cult was what bound the people together with common
rituals and celebrations, while the private cult was what held the
family together. The concept of the household god, for example, was
common.

This old idea of the cult is worth thinking about in the current age, as
multiculturalism shatters traditional communities and the traditional
customs of the people. Without something to organize people on the large
scale, even a regional scale, something will inevitably organize them on
the small scale. This was the traditional role of cults in the ancient
world. They evolved locally to be local. Put another way, they were a
local solution to a universal problem. They gave people purpose and
meaning.

In modern America, as the shared national identity recedes, something
will fill the void and most likely it will be something like the ancient
concept of the cult. Of course, with the internet, local becomes a
relative term. People of the same cult or subculture, can feel like they
are close to one another, by participating is private on-line groups.
These subcultures will become that which people primarily identify with
in public. Another aspect of identity politics will be the many
subcultures and cults that spring up.

Take for example the antisemitic community. It used to be that people
who hated Jews were called anti-Semites. One could be an Episcopalian
and be an anti-Semite. Not liking Jews was just one of many attributes
to describe someone. Later, the term shifted to mean people who were
hated by Jews. If Jews thought someone was a problem for the Jews, then
they were described as an anti-Semite. The anti-Zionists, even the
Jewish ones, are always called antisemitic, for example.

Today, some of that still holds, but antisemitism is much more complex
now than just a dislike for Jews or Israel. Antisemitism is quickly
becoming a unique and complex subculture with its own language, symbols
and literature. Kevin McDonald was amusingly called the [Karl Marx of
antisemitism](http://www.unz.com/jderbyshire/the-marx-of-the-anti-semites/),
but it is a good description. His three books on the Jews are now the
foundation of a complex and sophisticated understanding of Jews and the
people who have organized themselves around opposition to the Jews.

Of course, modern Judaism is evolving into cults as well. The Chabad
movement, for example, has gone beyond being a weird orthodox
subculture. It is now an international secret society with observation
posts in every Western capital. They even have one of their guys in the
White House. Zionism, as practiced by people like Ben Shapiro and Yoram
Hazony, ticks all the boxes of a cult. Everything they touch is
manipulated to fit into their worldview and the purpose of Zionism.

The subcultures evolving in regards to the Jews are just one type of
cult that will probably be a feature of the coming age. Secular gurus
like Jordan Peterson or Stephan Molyneux are going to become more
common. It’s fair to say that both would have fit in well on the revival
circuit back in the old days. Instead of healing people in tent
revivals, they heal people on-line with therapeutic language. The
multicultural future will be a new age of prophets and holy men,
building communities around their teachings.

Now, America has never had a unifying culture. Regionalism and
subcultures have been the defining feature of America since the
founding. Civic nationalism, however, provided a universal framework
within which all of these subcultures and regional identities could
operate without generating social conflict. Much like the Vikings,
America was a land with a public cult, civic nationalism and patriotism,
and many private cults. You could be a southern redneck and a proud
American at the same time.

That’s unlikely to be the future. For starters, the old system relied
upon a primary loyalty to the national creed, even among the rich.
That’s falling away, especially with the rich, who no longer have any
loyalty to the people over whom they rule. Then there is the
transparency of modern life. Mass communications means everyone can see
how different everyone else is living, relative to their subculture. The
Zionists and anti-Semites can follow one another in ways that were
unimaginable decades ago.

The old line about familiarity breeding contempt will surely be true of
the future. Because these evolving subcultures will know a lot about
their competitors, they will evolve in opposition to them as well. You
see this with what’s going on between the Zionists and the anti-Semites.
They are growing in complexity, but also their animosity toward one
another is becoming more complex. In the future, maintaining boundaries
will be what matters, not finding ways to break down boundaries and
cooperate.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
