---
title: "The Radical End"
date: "2019-01-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16219"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16219"
---

Usually, when you seek to take over something, you try not to destroy it
in the process of acquiring it. For example, if you are trying to rise
through the ranks of an organization, you do not want to discredit the
organization in the process. What is the point of rising up the ranks,
if the post you finally attain has been made worthless? This
“conservative” instinct becomes stronger once you have gained control of
whatever it was you were after. Now it is yours and you do what you must
to protect and increase its value.

For example, when the left took over the institutions of the American
ruling elite, they were careful to not destroy them in the process. They
destroyed the people in their way, for sure, but they were careful to
avoid damaging the institutions too much. In fact, they worked to
increase the power of the government, the schools, and the colleges once
they gained power over them. Today, logic says the left should be
extremely conservative, not wanting to alter anything, for fear of
diminishing the power of what they have.

That is the curious thing about what we are seeing from the left. They
have a firm grip on all the institutions of the empire. They control the
mass media. They control the administrative state and the education
system. Global corporations are now run by people deeply invested in
virtue signaling. The days of the left having to pressure big business
to do their bidding are long over. Big business is the vanguard of the
left now. Despite this, the left is running around trying to scramble
all the rules.

When you are in charge, the rules are your friend. After all, you get to
write the rules, pick the people who enforce the rules and pick the
people who interpret the rules. That is one of the best perks of being
in control of the institutions. The people in charge of the empire
should be the great defenders of law and order, as the rules work in
their favor. Instead, everywhere you look, the left is trying to destroy
the authority and legitimacy of the things they control. It is as if
they are trying to burn down their own house to spite us.

A good example is the two big fake news stories this past week. The
first one was an obvious put-up job by some hack political operators.
There was no way it could hold up under scrutiny. Left-wing media should
have attacked it to maintain what little credibility they have on these
issues. Similarly, they fell for the story about the teenagers and the
Indian protester. Official media should have been debunking that story,
as that would have made them look responsible and humane.

Instead, they helped egg on the feeding frenzy. Even if the facts were
as originally presented, normal people will always take the side of a
kid over an adult in a situation like this. It is not as if the kids
were a gang of blacks attacking an old man in the subway. They just
stood their ground and peacefully protested on behalf of their issue.
More people were red pilled by that story than by all the alt-right
internet memes combined. The media frenzy was suicidal,
self-destructive, and avoidable.

Now, it could simply be the case where their fanatics on social media
make it impossible to put the brakes on these feeding frenzies. A
left-wing idiot posts fake news on Twitter and within hours it is
retweeted a million times by other left-wing idiots. The speed of the
process makes it impossible for the more sober-minded media operations
to react in a timely fashion. Before they can react, the fake news has
rocketed around the internet and the debunking of it is well under way.

That is not the case in other areas where you see the Left damaging
their own cause. For example, they are undermining the law to swat at
flies. Two years after Charlottesville, [left-wing lesbian lawyer
Roberta
Kaplan](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwj82Men-f3fAhUI6KQKHYORD0sQFjAAegQIABAB&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.washingtonpost.com%2Fblogs%2Fpost-partisan%2Fwp%2F2017%2F10%2F17%2Froberta-kaplan-takes-on-the-neo-nazis-and-other-bigots-who-terrorized-charlottesville%2F&usg=AOvVaw30mvLsG-xuO-rWaPi9vWHI)
is asking the court to manipulate Federal law so she can harass
alt-right activists. Her scheme relies on reinterpreting old laws aimed
at the KKK to terrorize people who attended the rally. Kaplan is a
billionaire, and she is suing people who do not have two nickels to rub
together.

This is not strictly an American issue. In Canada, two left-wing
professors are suing a student, because the student shared a Jordan
Peterson video. This video was so upsetting and triggering to the
professors, they went on a crazy rant about Peterson on social media.
They now fear he may sue them, so [they are suing the
student](https://www.truenorthinitiative.com/laurier_university_vs_lindsay_shepherd)
in an effort to shift the blame onto her. That sounds insane, but given
the state of the courts in Canada, it is not out of the question that
the student loses the case.

The only possible outcome of this sort of lawfare is to convince people
that the law is a fraud. The only way a legal system can function is if
the people think the law is both rational and predictable. Even if
people do not like the laws, they will obey them if the law is
predictable. If left-wing lawyers manage to subvert the law by getting
left-wing judges to sign off on what amounts to state terrorism, the law
becomes the enemy of the people. The value of controlling the law and
the courts declines.

Even if you want to put this sort of stuff aside as the actions of rogue
individuals and mindless idiots on-line, think about some of the
policies the Left is championing. One big item on their list is the
normalization of open borders by debasing the value of things like
driver’s licenses. States with left-wing governments are in a rush to
issue driver’s licenses to illegals. This will result in so much fraud
that the picture ID will lose its value. All levels of government count
on those ID’s being mostly accurate.

It is not just for the benefit of foreigners. [New York
State](https://pjmedia.com/news-and-politics/nyc-adds-third-gender-x-option-to-official-city-id-cards/)
is now offering a third option for biological sex. A big part of how the
state keeps tabs on the citizenry is having their personal information,
usually through the driver’s license process. How long before the body
dysmorphics start demanding they can describe themselves as they feel
they should be described, rather than their actual description? Cops
will be looking for people claiming to be dinosaurs, having licenses
with pictures of a T-Rex on them.

When you start to tabulate the radical agenda and the ad hoc activity of
the Left, the most obvious conclusion is there is little coordination.
The people at the top have lost control of the monster they created.
They dream of creating a coalition of non-whites, over which they will
preside, so they can control the empire. The trouble is their coalition
is always reminding the other side that such an arrangement will be a
catastrophe. Again, the Left is mostly just radicalizing white people
now.

The other conclusion is the radicalism of the Left has no limiting
principle, so it must spiral out of control. Like the Khmer Rouge, the
logical end of this new radicalism is an orgy of self-destructive
violence. That means it will not burn out on its own as happened in the
1970’s with student radicalism. This round of radicalism is for keeps
and the Left will not stop until they are stopped. That is going to put
an end to civic nationalism and any thoughts of restoration. Whatever
comes next comes after the final conflict.
