---
title: "Post Soviet America"
date: "2019-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18300"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18300"
---

Way back in the late stages of the Cold War, the Soviet political class
started to fracture and splinter. The reform movement of Gorbachev was
one faction, while the old guard that resisted him was another. There
were other factions playing both sides against one another, as well as
genuine reformers on the fringe. The reason the ruling elite was
splintering was the system over which they ruled was no longer
functioning. This reality was becoming clear to many, but not everyone
in the party agreed.

Intrigue began to dominate party politics in the final stages of the
Soviet Union. There was always politics within the party, but it
revolved around the ruling center, much as court intrigue would revolve
around the king. As the system began to falter, that center collapsed
and party politics was conspiracies within conspiracies, as factions
jockeyed for power. Eventually, the system collapsed and the party with
it. What followed was a period of looting by oligarchs that rushed into
to fill the void.

It is an important thing to think about when analyzing what’s happening
in current year America. In the West, the response to the end of the
Cold War was the replacement of the old sober minded political class
with their self-absorbed, amoral children. The most notable example
being Bill and Hillary Clinton, who have come to symbolize Baby Boomer
political culture. Theirs is a politics of limitless mendacity.
Everything is for sale, including the very institution over which they
preside.

In other words, the Soviet Empire fell into a period of chaos and
disorder in response to the end of the Cold War, while America fell into
a period of self-indulgence. This way of framing it is like two sports
teams after a championship match. The losers fall into finger pointing
and blaming one another. The winners go on a bender to celebrate their
victory and the benefits that come with it. Eventually, the loser
regroups. In the case of Russia, it is becoming a normal country again.

There may be another way of reading the post-Soviet period in America.
It may be that the period ushered in by the Clintons was an
interregnum.  Both sides of the Cold War were purpose built to face off
against one another. The Russians bankrupted themselves with an
ineffective organizational model, so the end of the Cold War brought a
genuine collapse, as that was the only way forward. In America, the
country was still rich, so the old model could trundle on as if nothing
really changed.

This interregnum was a period where the old political order carried on
searching for an enemy to replace the Soviets. First it was the Muslims,
which gave us two ghastly wars of choice and the surveillance state.
That weakened America greatly, but instead of facing the long overdue
reorganization, the political class tried reinventing the Russian
bogeyman. Now, as in late stage Soviet Russia, the political center has
collapsed and we are entering a similar period of chaos and intrigue.

Like the Soviets, we have oligarchs jockeying to loot what’s left the
country, seemingly uninterested in staving off collapse. Big Tech and
Wall Street have all the signs of super-predators from another planet,
waiting for the chance to rush in and steal whatever they think has
value. Like Gorbachev’s government at the end, official Washington is
weak, while a populist reform movement builds. Trump is not Boris
Yeltsin, but no historic analogy is intended to be perfect.

Of course, there came a point in the late stages of the Soviet Union
where the emerging power centers outside the party, what would become
the oligarchs, resorted to violence in their struggles with one another
and the party. This is something that is starting to turn up more and
more in America. Starting with the execution of Seth Rich on a
Washington street, through the explosion of Antifa violence, the country
is now buzzing with conspiracy over the bizarre death of billionaire
Jeffrey Epstein.

That is another thing we are seeing in America that was common toward
the end of the Soviet Union. The public is so cynical about the motives
and character of the ruling class, that no one believes anything. The
fake news meme was effective because trust in the media had dropped to
zero. The lies had simply accumulated to the point where no rational
person could accept anything from the media at face value. The continued
existence of mainstream media just increases the cynicism.

Now, something not reported in the old Soviet Union that we are seeing
in current year America is the panic. We are currently in the midst of a
White Fright, where the media is tasked with casting daily events as
signs of a white supremacist uprising. The coalition of the ascendant is
being told to lock their doors and remain vigilante, as the twelfth
invisible Hitler is slated to return at any minute. Like the Russia
hoax, this one is a ruling class hoax that suggests a breakdown at the
very top.

Again, it is not a perfect analogy. That’s not how analogies work. That
said, there are important differences between the end of Cold War
America and the end of Cold War Russia. The interregnum between the end
of the Cold War and current year America is one example. Another is the
nature of the oligarchs ready to seize power from Washington. They are
foreign in outlook, if not legality. The tech barons and Wall Street
financiers have loyalties that transcend any attachment to nation.

These new oligarchs are globalists, while the Russian oligarchs were
local. The oligarchs of current year America are anti-nationalists,
seeking a post-national world order. Their desire is to turn the heart
of the American Empire into just another province. There’s also a class
consciousness to their enablers. The managerial elite see themselves as
a new class, tasked with administering the new global order. These are
not men for hire, as we saw in Russia. These are true believers.

There’s also the fact that the American military is a different thing
than what evolved in the Soviet Union. The Russian military was quite
comfortable involving itself in politics, while the America military
lacks the talent and culture to do it. Civilian leaders in America have
always been smart enough to choose obsequious and incompetent generals
to run the military branches. The talent is down a few ranks. The
culture of the military would not lend itself to political involvement
either.

Even so, what all of this suggests is America is headed for a period of
chaos similar to what gripped the Russians after the Cold War. Just as
the Russian oligarchs were too greedy and short sighted to replace the
party, our oligarchs are too foreign and feckless to provide an
alternative to Washington. A period of chaos in probably what comes next
for post-Soviet America. The sudden collapse of empire and then a
reversion to its natural state after a period of chaos and violence.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
