---
title: "No More Weirdos"
date: "2019-12-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19446"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19446"
---

A couple of weeks back, National Review was doing one of its ritual
denunciations of the Four Bads. Those are the things our betters have
declared to be the worst things possible for anyone to allow into their
minds. They are racism, sexism, homophobism and, of course antisemitism.
These are the mortal sins of the current age. Someone calling himself
Zachery Evans posted <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/12/anti-semitism-brooklyn-grows-roots-remain-misunderstood/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this column</a> about the
alleged rise in antisemitism in Brooklyn. Supposedly it is on the rise
over the last year.

Now, it has to be mentioned that the writer is not an American. He is an
Israeli whose bio states he is a “veteran of the Israeli Defense Forces
and a trained violist.” It’s hard not to suspect that this person is a
<a href="https://hasbarafellowships.org/overview"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Hasbara</a> operative. His
lack of a social media presence is a bit suspicious. That and these
writers go heavy on the networking, hoping to climb the media ladder.
This guy is probably on the payroll of a pro-Israel, white box content
operation that places material in sites like NRO.

Putting that aside, the column comes with a picture of a young fellow in
the typical outfit of the super-orthodox Jews. They dress a lot like the
Amish, except for the long curls of hair and the tassels. There are
variations on the costumes. Some wear <a
href="https://wp-media.patheos.com/blogs/sites/1122/2019/06/hat-1.jpg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">enormous fur cylinders</a> on
their heads. Others wear different headgear. Presumably these things all
have meaning inside the cult. These outfits are both a tradition and a
way to separate themselves from everyone else.

The use of costumes as a form of self-ghettoization is not exclusive to
the super-orthodox Jews. Black American cults have used the uniform as a
form of separation from the main. The Black Panthers are the most
obvious example. The Nation of Islam and their bow ties are another. The
Black Hebrew Israelites, who have been in the news of late, dress in
white robes and white head dresses. The point of these outfits is both
recognition and separation. They are not us.

Now, the article itself is reasonable about the harassment of these
super-orthodox Jews in Brooklyn. The media likes to say it is due to
white nationalism or the rise of the KKK or something, but that’s insane
nonsense. The real issue, one the writer alludes to in his piece, is the
local blacks and now the imported Muslims. Blacks have never liked Jews
in general and they really don’t like the ones in funny outfits. They
see these people as just another gang, one they can easily push around.

Then there are the imported Muslims. Since 9/11, the United States has
responded to the threat of Islamic terrorism by scouring the earth for
Muslims of every sort to import into the country. The theory is that by
importing tens of millions of Muslims from places the American military
has bombed for decades, the miasma that is causing Muslims to commit
terrorism will dissipate. It’s lunacy, but the result is places like New
York City suddenly have a new class of weird foreigner.

Inevitably, these various weirdos, imported and domestic, will not only
agitate against the main, but begin to attack one another. The old rule
of diversity plus proximity equaling violence is what you see in that NR
story. It is one non-white tribe of outsiders attacking a different
tribe of outsiders. The only role white people play in this at all is in
the madness of importing these people into the country. Otherwise, this
problem is not a white people problem. It is a diversity problem.

A fundamental axiom of group dynamics is that you get rid of the people
who cause disharmony in the group. The people who stir up trouble, don’t
fit in or simply cannot behave themselves, are removed. This leaves the
like-minded to get along with one another with the minimum of friction.
In the current age, this has been turned on its head so the opposite is
the goal. Our rulers import weirdos from all over the globe and put them
in close proximity with us and one another.

If one were to sum up the demands of the populists in every country of
the West, it would be “no more weirdos.” If every mainstream political
party of the West, even just one major party in each country, embraced
this simple dictum, most of the populist unrest would subside. The
native populations are simply tired of having to make excuses and
accommodations for the foreign weirdos. People are simply exhausted from
having to tolerate these people and their weirdness.

Think about it. Imagine if these fur cylinder guys were packed up and
sent back to Eastern Europe of Israel. On a different plane were the
various brands of Islam imported over the last decades. That alone would
make the tri-state area more livable for actual Americans. No more
disputes with the orthodox Jews trying to take over local neighborhoods.
No more Muslims trying to blow themselves up in public. Two big problems
would go away for the people of the region.

It’s not that these people are hated. Most Americans have no idea why
the orthodox walk around with giant fur cylinders on their heads. They
don’t understand anything about Islam. They don’t want to know. They
should not have to know. These are foreign to a Western nation in
general and very foreign to America in particular. There is no reason to
have these foreign people here. They are weird and they will never fit
in with the rest of us. It is immoral to demand we accommodate them.

That is what makes the simplicity of the “no more weirdos” idea so
beautiful. It does not tax anyone, by requiring anything from them. They
are free to be themselves, in all their weirdness, just not here around
us. If the fur cylinder guys want to parade around Tel Aviv, best of
luck to them. If Mohamed wants to pray in public, let him do that in a
Muslim land. If Mr. Abdillahi wants to do whatever it is, he does in
Somali, as long as he does it in Somalia and not Maine, no one needs to
care.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
