---
title: "The Community"
date: "2019-12-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19253"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19253"
---

One way to model how the imperial state functions is to think of it as a
single informal community that controls the organs of power. People
enter into this community as they would any community. They get to know
people, make friends, build connections and over time are considered a
part of the community. Every once in a while, one of them falls out of
favor and is punished by the community. They are “on the outs” for a
while until they can be rehabilitated and returned to good standing.

It is not a formal structure with rules and official membership, like
the communist party in Russia was back in the last century. That was an
effort to create something where no natural community existed. Instead,
Washington is the natural evolution of the managerial class that evolved
in the 20th century. People move to the area through one of the many
on-ramps of the managerial state. Over time, they slowly become part of
the ruling community that controls the imperial government.

It is why reform is impossible. There’s nothing all that wrong with the
formal government, at least in terms of structure. The issue is the
people running it. For them, the organs of government are there to serve
the community, not the country. That’s why they are always finding ways
around the rules, subverting the process and manipulating the system in
order to achieve ends different from what is intended. For them, the
point of government is to serve the community, not the country.

Even though the community is not a formal organization, it has some
similarities to the old communist party system. Instead of party
officials enjoying special perks like cars and secret access, community
members have unofficial perks. For example, the community members
involved in the seditious plot to overturn the 2016 election will be
exempt from prosecution. That was the point of the IG report, to let the
world know the community has looked into the matter and the issue is
closed.

If there is any doubt about this, consider the people at the heart of
the scandal, who cooked up the fake intelligence dossier. They are so
sure of their position, they are now running [a new
operation](https://www.realclearinvestigations.com/articles/2019/03/11/trump-russia_20_dossier-tied_firm_sending_dc_journalists_daily_collusion_briefings.html)
to plant community stories in the media. If these people had any fear of
Barr or Durham, they would be lying low. Instead, they are doing the
same service for the community they were doing before all this. They are
members of the community in good standing. They have nothing to fear.

Like the old communist party, community members live with one another in
lavish quarters in the capital. Instead of apartments on the
[Embankment](https://www.rbth.com/history/328157-did-soviet-government-officials-live-luxuriously),
the community lives in swank neighborhoods in the city. The lower
ranking community members live in seven figure homes in the surrounding
suburbs. For example, Lois Lerner, the women who used the IRS to harass
dirt people in the 2012 election, lived in [this lovely
home](https://moneymorning.com/wp-content/blogs.dir/1/files/2016/06/lois-lerner-house-1280x720.jpg)
in Bethesda. She now lives on the Vineyard, by the way.

It is this community nature of the ruling class that makes it immune to
democratic reform and popular pressure. When reformers are elected and
sent to Washington, they are absorbed into the community. As Pat
Buchanan pointed out decades ago, reformers arrive in the capital and go
native within a few years. The reason is they join the community and
soon see their interests as the community interest. Those who don’t are
eventually framed or shamed out of office and expelled.

This is why Trump’s game of chicken with the Democrats over impeachment
will end in disaster for the country. He thinks they lack the spine to
remove him, but they are not interested in removing him, at least not
yet. Instead, the community has decided to use him to further the
interest of the community. When impeachment hits the Senate, Trump will
be given [a list of things he must
sign](https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2019/12/05/the-senate-and-impeachment-dynamic/)
in order to avoid conviction. Look for immigration reform to be at the
top of that list demands.

Immigration is a good way to understand the psychology of the community.
They want to pass reform, by which they mean open borders, not for
material gain or because they are ideologues. They want the issue to go
away. The most expedition way of doing that is to give the pirates what
they want. This is how health care reform worked. The pirates got what
they wanted and the issue was put to bed. Your health care is worse, but
you are not part of the community, so you don’t matter.

Trump could roll the dice and dare them to convict, but that’s not much
of a threat to the community. A few members of Congress will lose their
seats, but they will not lose their place in the community. Instead they
will land in high paying lobbying jobs elsewhere in the system. That was
the lesson of health care. The inner party lost the House in the 2010
election, but all of the defeated members landed in good jobs at good
wages in the imperial system. The community still thrived.

It is why reform, particularly democratic reform, is hopeless. You
cannot reform something that does not exist in a formal sense. The
ruling elite in Washington is a subculture financed by global pirates.
The billionaires underwrite the community and the community makes sure
the global pirates get what they need from the state. In many cases, the
billionaires are members of the community. George Soros and Paul Singer
are as much a part of the community as anyone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
