---
title: "Dissident Versus Dispossessed"
date: "2019-09-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18559"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18559"
---

It is natural for dissidents, collectively and individually, to decry
their exclusion from the institutions of society. Collectively, their
exclusion means the systematic exclusion of their ideas and their
critiques of the prevailing orthodoxy. At the individual level, it means
exclusion from the pleasures and benefits of their career. There’s also
the fact that human beings are social animals. Exclusion, especially
systematic exclusion, is felt as a personal rejection and that hurts
even the toughest person.

There is, of course, the unfairness of it all. The people in charge of
the institutions rely on purges and exclusion to protect their
interests. There is the assumption that they rely on their institutional
power to combat their enemies, because they lack the intellectual power
to win a fair fight. They are petty men, who would rather persist in
their error than face correction, so they use their power over the
institutions to purge those who will challenge them and point out their
error.

The natural temptation, therefore, is for dissidents to seek access to
the institutions, in order to make their case. After all, if they can
just get on the stage and make their points, so the theory goes, the
superiority of their claims will win over the crowd and win them status.
This is the mentality of the reformer, who continues to have a love and
appreciation for the institution from which he has been purged. His
complaint is largely personal, as he does not oppose the institution,
just the people in it.

This has always been the emphasis of the paleocons. They are the result
of the neocons gaining control of the conservative institutions. Those
neocons then set about purging anyone who opposed their agenda. The
paleos came to be more defined by their expulsion than by their ideas.
They criticize the men in the institutions, rather than the institutions
themselves. Their adversaries made the fight personal, and the paleocons
were willing to take it personally. They still do.

That is the trap the modern dissident must avoid. Majorities will always
place trust in institutions, as those institutions, if not purpose
built, have been adapted to maintain their majority status. Man is a
social animal and expects his participation in society to have benefits.
Similarly, his society expects benefits from his inclusion. In a social
order built around institutions, the natural dynamic will be to seek the
benefits of those institutions, while maintaining those institutions.

The exile, in contrast, denied access to the institutions, will place
his trust in ideas. His social sphere should evolve around shared ideas.
That normal social dynamic will define the exile by his contribution to
the intellectual life of his social group. The value he gains from it
will be the refining and expansion of the ideas he shares with his
fellow dissidents. For the proper dissident, exile provides the
environment for a dynamic and creative intellectual life that exists
outside of the institutions.

The best example of this is the Protestant reformers we call the
Puritans, who eventually settled in North America. They began as
reformers of the English church, but eventually ended up as exiles. They
were not only exiled from the church, but from English society and
eventually their country. As a result, Puritanism was able to develop
into a fully formed and independent set of religious and social beliefs.
Puritanism probably could not have survived if not for the exile of its
adherents.

The birth of European conservatism is another example of how exile
creates the dynamics for a new intellectual framework. The aristocrats
who fled the French Revolution, found themselves as strangers in foreign
lands. In exile, they first waited for restoration, but then moved
beyond that to creating an authentic alternative to the radicalism of
the Jacobins. The conservatism of Joseph de Maistre remains an authentic
alternative to radicalism, because it evolved outside of it.

That is an important thing for modern dissents to grasp. The
conservatism of Bill Buckley was always a Burkean response to American
radicalism. That is, a response that evolved within the same
institutions as the radicals. Burke did not develop his ideas as an
outsider, but as an insider. Similarly, the American Right in the last
century evolved in the elite institutions, as a traveling partner with
the radicalism that developed after the Second World War. Left and Right
were co-dependent.

This is the difference between the dissident and the dispossessed. The
former not only accepts his outsider status, but relishes it. Free from
the institutions, he can develop his own mental framework as a genuine
alternative to the prevailing orthodoxy. The dissident sees his
expulsion as the break, the vital break, from the historical and
intellectual timeline. Rather than being carried forward by the momentum
of his inheritance, he creates a new vision to replace the old.

The dispossessed, in contrast, are haunted by their expulsion. Who they
are is defined by their loss of institutional support. They are the
bitter ex-wife or the disgruntled former employee. They stand outside,
perhaps shouting criticisms, as their identity is an entirely negative
one. They relish every slight. They celebrate being criticized by those
inside, because that’s who they are. They are people purged from that
which had given them purpose and meaning. They are men without a *polis*
and nothing more.

If dissidents are going to have a role in what comes next, it must be as
the creators of something independent and indifferent to the prevailing
orthodoxy. Communities of ideas, operating outside of the institutions,
are the greatest threat to those institutions, because they cannot be
co-opted and they cannot be easily attacked. Like the Puritans, the
dissident eventually has to accept that what comes next for him is out
in the wilderness, away from the existing order and independent of it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
