---
title: "Recursive Grifting"
date: "2019-03-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-03-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16692"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16692"
---

Last weekend was CPAC, the annual convention for the Professional Right™
to show off their new wares for the coming year. In theory, it is a
gathering of grassroots activists, conservative politicians, and
conservative media to socialize, network and strategize about how to
defeat the left. This was true in the early days, but somewhere in the
1990’s it became a trade show for Conservative Inc. The conservative
carnies use it as a way to network and showcase their talents.

Just as Conservative Inc. has become a grotesque mockery of itself,
C-PAC is something closer to a clown show rather than a real political
event. The organizers have given up pretending to be conservative.
Instead, they are going for something like an awards show. They actually
invited a
[clown](https://twitter.com/RickyRebelRocks/status/1101501125700870149)
this year. It is proof that the Official Right™ is now Trump’s world,
which is a blend of reality TV and professional wrestling. There is lots
of drama, all of it choreographed, but in the end, nothing actually
happens. It is just a show.

It is tempting to get down about this, but the frivolousness of Official
Conservatism™ is probably good news. An important part of developing an
authentic alternative to the prevailing orthodoxy is discrediting the
Potemkin version. There is also the pure entertainment value in seeing
our adversaries beclown themselves. C-PAC invited Prog and Antifa media
into cover this circus and the results were predictable. The lefty media
ran to their hives and
[bleeped](https://www.mediaite.com/tv/oliver-darcy-cpac-has-become-an-event-for-shameless-grifters-to-recite-bumper-sticker-slogans/)
all over their “friends on the respectable right.”

It would take a heart of stone not to laugh at seeing a grifter like
Oliver Darcy tell his fellow left-wing grifters about his time with the
so-called conservative grifters. We have shameless grifters calling out
other shameless grifters, as part of their grift. Of course, the
grifters being called out will return the favor, as part of their grift.
It is a magnificent display of recursive grifting.  Perhaps grifter
space-time is folding in on itself. We are about to see the
grifter-verse collapse in on itself and form the prophesied grifter
singularity.

While it is hilarious to write the word “grifter” that many times in a
single paragraph, there is a very serious issue here. If a bunch of
left-wing grifters are in the same room as a bunch of right-wing
grifters, there is the chance for a grifter paradox. This is when the
two sides of the grifter-verse agree with one another. Scientists are
not entirely sure what happens at that point. Some speculate it opens
the gates of Hell, while others fear it will open a worm hole to the
home dimension of the grifter, unleashing even more grifters.

The whole thing was not just a puppy-pile of political pornography. [A
few
dissidents](https://vdare.com/articles/faith-goldy-make-maga-ours-again-americans-voted-for-trump-not-matt-and-mercedes-schlapp)
managed to suit-up in their EPA-approved hazmat attire and get inside to
report back to the rest of us. There are people on our side who want to
throw people like Loomer, Goldy and Fuentes into the same pile as the
rest of the media whores, but there is an important difference. People
who are good at getting attention and willing to do what it takes to get
your attention are useful to the dissident effort to discredit
Conservative Inc.

That is what our side needs to get better at understanding. There is a
difference between the tool and the man who wields the tool. It is a
poor craftsman who blames his tools, and it is a poor political movement
that blames its media savvy people. The trouble with Conservative Inc.
is not that it is good at media whoring. The trouble is that is all they
are now, media whores. They have not had a new insight since the 80’s.
Our side is teeming with new ideas of varying quality. We need to get
better at selling them.

Young people like Fuentes and Goldy also do a better job of connecting
with the young audience. Young people like the ad hoc YouTube videos and
live streams. The sorts of young people signing up for Young Americans
for Freedom, the main group behind C-PAC, are the sorts of soulless
careerists, who only appeal to aging Boomers. They are the sorts of
young people old people admire. Having some edgy, grifty people of our
own to real in new eyeballs from the younger generation is a worthwhile
trade at this point.

That said, one of the unique challenges any dissident movement faces in
the mass media age is keeping itself from becoming a feeding trough for
media grifters. The Tea Party is a great example of a genuine grassroots
effort that was swamped by an army of media whores and political
con-men. Like a plague of locusts unleashed from Washington, these
people chewed through the movement, leaving nothing but stalks. The
great challenge is in defending against that, while not ghettoizing the
movement in self-defense.

It is why watching how legacy operations like CPAC operate and how
dissidents nibble away at them is useful. It is always tempting to turn
away in disgust, but these sorts of events can be put to use in
red-pilling the civic nationalist in your life. The over-the-top
grifting on display is another opportunity to make contrasts between an
authentic alternative and the Potemkin one called conservatism. Maybe we
get lucky and see that grifter singularity and it takes the whole lot of
them into the void.
