---
title: "Ukrainian Mysteries"
date: "2019-11-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19136"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19136"
---

One of the puzzles to the impeachment stuff is why certain elements of
the ruling class think this is a productive use of their time. The
impeachment show put on by the Democrats last week struck most people as
boring and weird. It was mostly a parade of people with funny sounding
names babbling about inside baseball. There’s also the fact that the guy
appointed to be the master of ceremonies gives people the creeps. Adam
Schiff looks like frog peeping through the ice. He is a very odd man.

The bigger issue is no one seems to know what the crime is at the heart
of this alleged scandal. We live in an age where the President bombs
countries, overthrows governments and sends troops onto foreign soil
whenever he likes. Demanding information in exchange for cash hardly
seems important. The claim by the outrage mob is that it would have been
perfectly fine for Trump to bomb Kiev or overthrow the government, but
he crossed the line demanding they investigate criminality.

Of course, nothing in politics is as it seems. This impeachment stuff
has other aspects to it. One is the outlandish corruption in Washington.
The Biden family appears to have been taking massive bribes from Burisma
Holdings, the dodgy energy company that operates within Ukraine. What
exactly they were expecting to get is not all that clear, but it must
have been worth a lot. They were not paying Hunter Biden tens of
millions because he offered wise counsel. They expected something big.

Given the nature of the Washington political elite and Biden’s position
within it, it is safe to assume a lot of people were getting paid by
elements operating in Ukraine. They played some role in the seditious
plot to overturn the 2016 election. Some of the fake information used to
defraud the court for FISA warrants came from Ukraine via the Steele
dossier and Fusion GPS. Of course, Mueller put Paul Manafort in jail
allegedly because he had corrupt dealings in Ukraine.

This small unimportant country on the fringe of Europe seems to play an
out-sized role in America politics. People forget that during the Obama
administration, the foreign policy elite overthrew the elected
government of Ukraine. [Victoria
Nuland](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-26079957) was caught red
handed working to disrupt the government in 2014. Nuland is one of those
permanent party members who is never affected by elections. No matter
who is in the White House, she is part of the team running foreign
policy.

Of course, no discussion of Ukraine can be complete without mentioning
that our greatest ally seems to have an obsession with the place. The
Ukraine impeachment show looked like a Chinese restaurant on Christmas
day. It was one Jew after another popping up to talk about the ancestral
homeland. As [Steve
Sailer](http://www.unz.com/isteve/benny-gantzs-russian-pal/) and many
others have noted, American Jews have an obsession with their old
stomping grounds in the former Russian Empire. Impeachment was shtetl
porn for these people.

The Jewish obsession with that part of the world is a fascinating bit of
history that never gets much attention. Third and fourth generation
Irish Americans have no interest in Ireland. The same is true of
Italians, Poles and even Mexicans. These groups have folded into the
white American ethnic group. For Jews, the old country still looms
large, even after close to a century. Look at the Russian sector of the
foreign policy establishment and it is a sea of little hats.

This is probably why Russia is now a magic word in leftist circles. When
the party wants to say something bad about someone, they claim the
person is a Russian puppet or fond of Putin. Tulsi Gabbard, who has
outrageously taken the position the Democrats had during the Bush years,
with regards to endless war, is regularly accused of being a Russian
agent by various rage heads on cable. For certain people, Russia will
forever be the most hated enemy. The Jews really know how to hold a
grudge.

That is one major reason for Ukraine being so important to Washington.
It is the dream of these people to have Ukraine included in NATO, thus
an official part of Europe. It is a symbolic liberation from the Russian
Empire. The people from the Pale of Settlement can then claim to be
European. It is an important psychological element animating much of the
obsession and paranoia over that part of the world. That old need to not
dwell alone is the invisible hand guiding all of this.

Of course, there is the possibility that Jews obsess over that part of
the world, because that is where they have hidden the Ark of the
Covenant. Instead of a government warehouse in the Midwest, it has been
stashed away in the Pale of Settlement. The Jewish people have been
there for a long time and their origin story is shrouded in mystery, so
maybe that’s the big secret. Is that any more absurd or ridiculous than
anything else in the bizarre impeachment charade?

In the end, the weirdness of this whole affair is probably why
impeachment has not resonated with the public. All of these odd-looking
people with foreign names strike most Americans as outsiders. They are
not the sorts of characters that have meaning to them, because these are
not people they can relate to as fellow citizens. The pudgy Ukrainian
colonel looks like a flunky from a Bond movie. Most Americans wonder why
we have a Ukrainian general working in the White House.

What impeachment and the various scandals of the ruling class
demonstrate is just how foreign the ruling class is today. These are
people so divorced from the daily reality of Americans, they may as well
live on another planet. They can’t even put on good political theater
now. Instead, it is a parade of their buddies from an obscure part of
the imperial establishment. They would have been better served offering
up spectral evidence that Trump is a witch. That would be more
relatable.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
