---
title: "Wrong From The Beginning"
date: "2019-09-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18718"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18718"
---

A popular topic in dissident circles is the failure of the so-called
conservatives to do anything to halt the advance of the Left. The way
the conversation goes is to start with some event, the “conservative
case for some lefty idea” and then move to mocking a particular
conservative, who exemplifies the type. This can go the other way, as
well, if the latest surrender is being led by a clown nose like David
French of Kevin Williamson, two men who have become the face of modern
cuckery.

There is an assumption among dissidents that these types know full well
that they are just props for their Progressive handlers. They are aware
of the truth, but choose to lie for a living, as it pays better than
being honest. While this may be true with hucksters like French or an
oleaginous grifter like Dinesh D’Souza, it is not so obvious with the
bulk of the conservative believers. They see themselves as an authentic
opposition to the Left and they think it is an effective opposition.

<a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/why-identity-politics-kills-democracy/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here is a typical example</a>
from American Conservative of the sort of material popular with the
normie conservative. It’s the standard rant against identity politics
and multiculturalism that avoids anything dangerous. Right off the bat,
the subhead gives the game away. It is going to be the conservative case
for democracy, an idea conservatives have opposed since forever. It’s
also un-American. The Founders were quite explicit and very public in
their opposition to democracy.

Now, putting that aside, the writer gets going with the claim that “a
healthy democracy demands that voters *resist *voting out of personal
advancement. Your vote should be determined by what is best for the
nation, not what is best for you.” In other words, the functioning
democracy, not even an ideal one, is one where the members are ready to
sacrifice themselves and their interests for the greater good.
Presumably, there would be strong moral prohibitions against appeals to
individual interests.

A normal man could be forgiven for wondering if this is a post about
membership in a suicide cult, rather than a human society. This
definition of democracy can only lead to a piety spiral, where citizens
prove their virtue through self-abnegation. If the greatest good is
sacrifice to the whole, then the normal human desire for status is going
to lead to extreme public acts of piety. Since the most one can give of
themselves is their life, the ultimate act of sacrifice to democracy
would be suicide.

In addition to being insane, this definition of democracy is wrong. The
Greeks certainly understood that the citizen’s relationship with his
*polis* was reciprocal. We know this from Plato and Aristotle. The
reason Athenian democracy could work was the individual gained something
from his inclusion in the *polis* and, in turn, the *polis* got
something from his participation. The Greeks were not lunatics forming a
cult. As a result, they also limited the vote to Athenian males. *You
had to be born into the polis*.

Later, he claims, “Multiculturalist ideology and identity politics have
corrupted the way we understand participatory democracy.” A few
paragraphs later he writes, “Any serious thinker knows that having a
society that *isn’t* multicultural is an impossibility…” The reader
might miss this obvious contradiction, as these statements are separated
by a few paragraphs, but the writer should see the error. If a democracy
must be multicultural, then multiculturalism is a necessary element.

The thing is, the general tone of the post suggests the writer is
oblivious to this contradiction. Instead, he looks at the inevitable
result of multiculturalism, which is social conflict and eventually
violence, as the result of the bad people he calls Marxists, who subvert
the system in some way. These Marxist, presumably, convince the citizens
to be selfish individualists. Ironically, the assertion here is Marx and
Marxists were suffering from false consciousness. They were not
collectivists after all!

Toward the end of the piece, we get this gem. “Oddly, identity politics
and multiculturalism are similar to Randian objectivism—they reinvent
the political field as a means of advancing self-interest.” While it is
amusing to see libertarians and cultural Marxists at the same trough,
that’s not the intent here. The implication is that any politics that
places the individual or his group at the top is inauthentic. True
politics is the complete elimination of the individual and group
identity.

Putting aside that this sounds like a suicide cult, the obvious problem
here is that the total devotion to the democracy is a form of identity
politics. The members of such a society would be warranted, maybe even
required, for example, to go over to another society and murder all of
those people. After all, to be outside the democracy is to be opposed to
it, as anything but total immersion in the democracy is immoral. A smart
man would then wonder if this is why democracy tends to be aggressive.

What’s going on here is the writer, like most conservatives, is
desperately trying to reconcile a grab bag of principles that have been
handed to him by the Left. He wants to believe democracy is wonderful.
He wants to believe multiculturalism is the natural way of mankind. He
believes all people are equal and infinitely malleable. Therefore, the
only way to reconcile these “truths” is a form of politics that
eliminates all individual and group identity. Everything that makes us
human must be sacrificed.

Not only is this monstrous, it is an affirmation of the core of
radicalism. This is the argument Progressives make on a daily basis. It
is what justifies their war on anyone that opposes them. They feel
completely justified in destroying the lives of those who disagree with
them, because dissent is to put something before the whole. Just as the
virtuous must fully submit themselves to the democracy, they must also
sacrifice anyone who dissents. Democracy demands your total commitment.

The writer of that American Conservative piece does not follow his own
logic nor can he, because he believes the same things the Left believes.
That is and always has been the problem with the so-called
conservatives. Their starting point is the same as the people they claim
to oppose. They embrace the same universalism, the same egalitarianism
and the same worship of democracy. From the beginning, American
conservatism was about accommodation*.* It was wrong from the start.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
