---
title: "The IQ"
date: "2019-06-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17743"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17743"
---

The state of Israel holds a special place in the American political
consciousness for a number of reasons. One is the fact Israel puts
enormous effort into lobbying the political class in Washington. They
are the most effective lobbying machine on earth. The other is the
phenomenon of Christian Zionists, who have created a form of
Christianity that seems to venerate the modern state of Israel. Then
there is the anti-Muslim aspect to the whole thing. Most Americans back
Israel, because they don’t like Muslims.

It was not always this way. In the 1950’s both political parties were
skeptical about Israel, but for a number of reasons the political class
was convinced to back the Israelis against the Arabs. Even so, the Left
remained anti-Zionist into the 1970’s, siding with the Palestinians as
members of the coalition of the oppressed. There remains a whiff of this
on the Left with the old guys. A guy like Bernie Sanders is comfortable
being anti-Zionist, without being a self-hating Jew. He just keeps it to
himself these days.

Right-wing Progressives, on the other hand, have gone completely insane
with their love of Israel. They are pushing through laws in states like
Florida to ban criticism of Israel or support for critics of Israel.
It’s tempting to say these are unconstitutional, but the courts are so
corrupt now, that’s a phrase without meaning. Still, the right-wing
Progressives make a fetish of the Constitution, so for them to embrace
the barbaric practice of proscribing certain topics underscores their
fanaticism for Israel.

The anti-Semites, of course, look at this as part of the greater plot by
those crafty Jews to destroy the West. It is certainly true that Israel
is happy to support Zionist movements in the United States, as it keeps
the American government on their side. The truth is, being pro-Israel is
one of the few areas where Christians can participate in public life, so
they do so with [rabid
enthusiasm](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2019/02/12/its-christian-politics-not-aipac-money-that-explains-american-support-for-israel/).
Similarly, Republicans are allowed to give it to the Left on this issue,
so they go overboard on their love for Israel.

That said, Israel is happy to see it. They have become dependent on the
United States in ways that get lost on this side of the world. Billions
flow from America into Israel every year. The amount of private charity
from Christian groups in the US exceeds the foreign aid from the US.
Then there are the wealthy Jews, who are not often all that observant,
but they make up for it by writing checks and getting others to writes
checks to Israeli causes. Remittances means as much to Israel as they do
to Mexico.

The trouble with this dynamic is it is an aging one, where the most
enthusiastic supporters of Israel in America are getting old. On the
Left, the younger generation sees Jews as white and white people are all
bad. Instead, they side with Arabs, who are not white, so they are good.
Chuck Schumer may run the Democrat party, but Ilhan Omar is the future
of the party. Even if she is an exception, the brown coalition simply
sees Jews as part of Team White, which makes them and their interests
the enemy.

On the Right, mentally unstable left-wing Jews create more anti-Semites
on a daily basis than Hitler did in a century. As the younger left-wing
Jews, especially the women, try to burrow into the brown coalition, by
going over the top in their anti-white rhetoric, whites young whites are
reacting to this rhetoric. To say that Michelle Goldberg is bad for Jews
is to say that cancer is bad for people, but so far Jews have yet to
figure out how to think about addressing that problem, much less curing
it.

That’s another problem for Israel, maybe the most serious one. The
Michelle Goldberg type is a dying breed. Reformed and Conservative Jews
in America stopped having kids, just like occidentals. They also started
marrying out of the Tribe. As a result, the ratio of Jews to non-Jews in
the country is half what it was at the middle of the last century. The
explosion of birth rates and immigration on the Orthodox side promises
to change the complexion of Jewishness. [Demographics is everyone’s
destiny](https://forward.com/news/402663/orthodox-will-dominate-american-jewry-in-coming-decades-as-population/).

To understand this dynamic and what it means for Israel, think about how
the Jewish vote broke in the 2016 election. Trump won the Orthodox
voters, as he is pro-Israel, but he lost the rest of the Jewish vote.
The old gag was that the Jews lived like Episcopalians and voted like
Puerto Ricans. Today, the non-Orthodox vote like blacks and live like
homosexuals. That vital coalition for Israel is now backing anti-Israel
candidates and erasing themselves from the book of life. That’s bad for
Israel.

Of course, these demographic changes are driven by the same forces that
are undermining occidental communities. The reason there is such a thing
as alt-Jew is the same reason there is an alt-right. What it means to be
Jewish in modern America is under assault by modern America. The reason
the Orthodox have so many kids is they see a bright future. The reason
the rest of the Diaspora in North America is not having kids is they
wish they had never been born. Self-loathing is their religion.

There’s something else with Jews that is unique to them. A big part of
Jewish identity is seeing themselves as the plucky underdog put upon by
a hostile world. As they rose to the top of American society, they were
changed by their immersion into the Progressive cultural outlook. Just
as Jews were Hellenized by the Greeks, Jews in America were changed by
those ruling class Protestants they found themselves competing with and
working with in the high ground of American society.

There’s good reason to mock the term Judeo-Christian, but there is such
a thing as Judeo-Puritan. That’s the ethos of the America ruling elite
now. The almost berserk obsession with collective judgement and the need
to subvert their own system in order to perpetual a state of constant
revolution, draws from both traditions. The moralizing prudishness has
been inverted to attack traditional morality, while the outsider
instinct has been weaponized to create a perpetual state of crisis.

This warping of Jewish identity is most obvious with the neocons. Their
enthusiasm for crusading around the world to spread democracy is written
off by anti-Semites, as part of their plot to help Israel. In reality,
it is the result of internalizing the missionary zeal and universalism
of their Protestant brothers in the Judeo-Puritan orthodoxy. The
Protestants send missionaries to torment the bad whites inside America,
while the Jews send those bad whites out to impose liberal democracy on
the rest of the world.

Overall, the dynamic in America is not a good one for Israel. The
disintegrating old white America is undermining general support for
Israel. It is opening the doors to left-wing anti-Zionists among the
coalition of the ascendant. The Jews most supportive of Israel
financially, and best able to influence government policy, are fading
into a demographic oblivion. The partnership of Trump’s over-the-top
civic nationalism and Netanyahu’s over-the-top Zionism is like the last
concert for an old band about to retire.

For Israel, it means figuring out how to work with nationalist movements
in Europe and white identity movements in the United States. Jews in the
Diaspora have the luxury of railing against these movements, but
Israelis are far more sober minded. They have no choice but to be
pragmatic, as their survival depends upon it. What seems like an
unlikely partnership today, is most likely the path forward for Israel.
The world’s only ethno-state will have to support the concept of
ethno-nationalism for everyone.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">please contribute here</a>.

Or, You can send money to me at: P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD
21030-0432
