---
title: "The Ghost Of Alexander Butterfield"
date: "2019-09-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18730"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18730"
---

For reasons that no one can quite explain, the Democrats are once again
roaring about impeachment. This time they are promising to have a
meeting about holding a hearing on whether or not to start impeachment
proceedings. For his part, Trump seems to be enjoying this more than
usual. He gets to stand in front of the cameras and unload on the “fake
news” and Joe Biden’s crooked son. This is his element. He is a man who
likes to be in the middle of the whirlwind. He loves this stuff.

The core story here is a puzzle. The Democrats demanding impeachment are
relying on someone pretending to be a whistle blower. This person cannot
possibly have information damaging to Trump. There is a strong suspicion
that this person is another menopausal nut like Blasey-Ford, the women
who accused Brett Kavanaugh of being Jack the Ripper in another life.
Given that the same team of lawyers behind that stink bomb were involved
in the FBI plot, it’s a smart bet.

Of course, all of this is great political theater and that is the point
of it. People get paid a lot of money to go on television and conjure
complex four-dimensional strategies for why this is happening. No one in
the Washington media knows anything that is not handed to them by
someone in government, so they are left with reading those scripts or
playing make believe. For a week or so, the impeachment show will be
center stage, then the dogs will bark, but the caravan will move on.

As far as why the Democrats are stepping on this rake, the most likely
answer is they need to make noise. Joe Biden is on video bragging about
getting the Ukrainian prosecutor fired. That prosecutor was
investigating a shady deal involving Biden’s shady kid and some other
Democrat connected people. Screaming impeachment is a useful
distraction. Biden gave a presser yesterday and the media largely
ignored it, because they were told to focus on the Trump impeachment
flap.

It’s important to remember that this is not about Trump or Biden. What
this is about is the corruption that went on during the Obama years. We
know, for example, that several Senators were colluding with the FBI
plotters. While no smoking gun has been unearthed, it seems likely that
Obama’s inner circle knew about the plot. Then there is the Clinton
factor. No one really knows what she was auctioning off out of the State
Department and no one wants the public to know about it either.

This is probably why Trump is grinning like a chimp over this Ukraine
stuff. It’s another chance to bring that story into the sunlight. Trump
has been trying to get the classified documents surrounding the FBI case
released for a year now. His AG, Bill Barr, is sitting on them as the
political establishment works to prevent the disclosure. The more the
media and the Democrats demand documents and testimony from the Trump
administration, the greater the odds of an [Alexander
Butterfield](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexander_Butterfield)
moment.

Alexander Butterfield was a White House staffer in the Nixon years. He
revealed the existence of the White House taping system, during the
Watergate investigation. It was his testimony that changed the nature of
the scandal. Investigators suspected there was a recording system, but
they had no way of knowing. In questioning Butterfield about another
matter, he revealed that there was a taping system in the Oval Office
and most important, everything was being taped. It was the turning point
of the scandal.

There has always been speculation that the Butterfield story was not
just serendipity, but that he was maneuvered into a position to make the
revelation. The famous scene of Republican lawyer Fred Thompson
questioning Butterfield during the televised hearing was completely
staged. It was a made for television event that spelled the beginning of
the end for Nixon. Soon, there were demands for the tapes and public
opinion flipped against Nixon, who resigned the next year.

Theatrics aside, the lesson of the Butterfield story is that you never
can know what will slither into the daylight once you start turning over
rocks. The Trump administration is in possession of a lot of classified
material related to the political corruption of the last administration.
They can’t just dump it into the public domain. A big ugly political
fight with the Democrats, heading into an election, is perfect cover for
putting someone in front of Congress to accidentally on purpose say
something important.

This is why Pelosi has no intention of holding formal impeachment
proceedings. It’s far too risky to her party. She may be high on happy
pills all day, but she is shrewd enough to know such a hearing would be
very dangerous. Of course, this is why Trump seems to be daring the
Democrats to open the hearings. It’s good politics, but it also creates
the sort of atmosphere conducive to letting things slip into the public
domain. Thanks to this Ukraine flap, we now know Biden’s political
campaign is over.

The trouble for Pelosi and the Democrats is their media and back bench
is staffed with the sorts of lunatics they have been courting for
decades. The Washington press corps is full of hysterical females,
convinced Trump will stuff their uterus with Bibles and sew their legs
shut. The Democrat back benchers are cranks and dingbats like
Ocasio-Cortez and Corey Booker. Keeping these loons from rushing into
the minefield may prove impossible. Trump seems to think so, at least.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
