---
title: "Technological Despotism"
date: "2019-08-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-08-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18258"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18258"
---

In the 1990’s, it was popular for conservatives to excuse their
impotence by throwing around the line, “In a democracy, the people get
the government they deserve”, which they attributed to Tocqueville.
So-called conservatives like Newt Gingrich were supposed to be idea men,
brimming with technocratic solutions to every problem, while Clinton was
a windy degenerate from a bygone era. The fact that the voters sided
with Clinton over conservatives reflected poorly on the people.

The quote, of course, was not from Tocqueville. It was actually [Joseph
de Maistre,](https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Joseph_de_Maistre) who coined
that phrase. It was oddly symbolic of the state of conservatism. They
had turned their back on everything that defined Western conservatism by
that point, so forgetting seminal figures in the intellectual tradition
of the Right was appropriate. In retrospect, the fact that the so-called
conservatives did not understand the word “people” in the context of the
quote was the most poignant error.

Putting that aside, the quote itself is a nice shorthand for the actual
truth that lies behind those words. The people get the ruling elite they
can produce and that ruling elite will then create a government that
reflects its nature. The condition of the people is reflected in the
morality of its ruling class. At the same time, the ruling class is
responsible for the people. Its duty is to advance their interests. In
this way, the pivot point of a people is its ruling class. It is what
they make of it.

The founding generation of America were men of civic virtue. The saw the
willingness to put the interests of the community ahead of private
interests, as the threshold item for a leader. As a result, they
rejected the monarchical system of government they inherited from
England and created a republic. The constitutional system they created
was based on the assumption that, in general, the sort of men who would
rise to prominence were men who prized civic virtue. The Constitution
reflected this.

That turned out to be the fatal flaw of the constitutional order created
in Philadelphia two centuries ago. While the system of checks and
balances worked to prevent the ambitious and unscrupulous from gaining
politician power, it was not built for the ruling elite that would
evolve in the 19th century. When the North conquered the country,
America became a nascent empire. It still reflected the founding order,
but its elite was now changing to reflect the changing nature of
America.

The ruling elite the evolved after the Civil War and into the Industrial
Revolution did not place civic virtue at the top of its moral order.
Instead, it was the desire for and the love of honor that motivated the
ruling classes. They quickly reorganized the government to reflect this
reality. Rank and status were now the coin of the realm. Whether it was
dominating some area of the economy or conquering foreign lands, the
path to attaining rank and status was though government and politcs.

You can see this in the type of men who occupied high office. Before the
Civil War, the leadership of the country were men who either got rich
before entering government, or they were born rich. This was the result
of a natural ruling class that reflected the human capital of the
people. After the war, there emerged men who made their names in
government. Their path to high status was not as natural leaders of
their community, but as shrewd operators in the political system.

The obvious example is Abraham Lincoln, who is treated as the Moses of
the second founding by the previous ruling class. This was not a man who
prized civic virtue or was a natural community leader. Instead, he
craved status and power. He attained those through the skillful
maneuvering through politics and then through the brutal use of force to
create a political order that reflected this new ruling class. For those
who wonder when America will have its Sulla, look no further than
Lincoln.

Every phase of an elite runs its course and this one is no different.
The ruling class that evolved after the Civil War through the Cold War
was built for a different age. It was industrial and it was geared to a
world of industrial competition. What kept it going long after its peak
was the Cold War. The stand-off with communism not only locked the New
Deal political order in place, it locked in place the status system of
the ruling elite. That system, thirty years after the Cold War, is now
giving way to something new.

The technological age, like the industrial age, is the accelerant for a
long overdue transformation of the American ruling elite. This new class
is no longer created and housed within the political class. It exists
outside of it, within its own power centers inside and outside of
government. The intelligence services, for example, are now an
independent power center, beyond the reach of Congress. Silicon Valley
and Wall Street are now more powerful than Washington.

This new ruling class has a unique motivation. The elite of the republic
was defined by civic virtue. The elite of the empire was defined by
status and rank. This new ruling elite will be defined by the fear it
instills in the public. In the technological age, fear of the oligarchs
will be the supreme public virtue. Fear will be ruthlessly and
creatively inculcated by a ruling elite that is wholly disconnected from
the people over whom it rules. This stage of America will be the age of
technological despotism.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
