---
title: "Ethics And Authority"
date: "2019-10-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18952"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18952"
---

Ethics are a system of moral values dealing with what is good and bad
and with moral duty and obligation. They can be highly personal, derived
from your understanding of the world, but even personal ethics tend to
correspond with public ethics. Every society has to have a set of
unwritten rules that govern behavior. Otherwise, you don’t have a
society. You have a collection of competing strangers. Those public
ethics, the moral framework of society, must rest upon authority to give
them vigor.

For most of human history, public morality was rooted in the stories and
legends of the people, which described their gods and the role of the
gods. At other times, the moral authority was the ruler, who took on a
supernatural role in society. In Europe, after the fall of the Roman
Empire, the Church filled the role of moral authority, along with the
evolving social structure. The feudal system established roles and
duties for people within the system. Those duties to your station were
part of the moral order.

This connection between ethics and authority is what has always haunted
atheism, which denies the most common source of moral authority. In
fact, atheism is mostly a negative identity, so the atheist invests
heavily in attacking the moral authority of Christianity. Oddly, they
suffer the same defect in logic as evolution deniers. When they do try
to <a
href="https://www.atheists.org/activism/resources/ethics-without-gods/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">conjure a godless moral
code</a>, they inevitably slam into the old problem of Hume’s law. That
is, they try to derive an *ought* from an *is*.

The struggle atheists have conjuring a moral code without the authority
of religion on which to base it gets to a more fundamental problem of
western liberalism. A central thesis of liberalism is universalism, the
notion that there is one set of rules that are the best for all people
everywhere in all times. That means the moral code that comes along with
the universal political order must also be universal and timeless. Such
a code, of course, cannot answer the question, *on whose authority?*

This is the heart of the clash between liberal democracy and Islam. When
the Mohammedan is told that homosexuals should be allowed to parade in
the streets, he asks “upon what authority are you saying this?” The
liberal cannot answer, as he acknowledges no authority other than a
mystical will of the people. The Mohammedan in contrast has his
religion, his imam and the traditions handed down to him. In order to
accept liberalism, he must abandon his god and his ancestors.

This is the problem vexing the West. In a liberal democracy, no one can
ever know who is in charge, as that runs counter to the basics of
democracy. In theory, decisions are made by fifty percent plus one vote.
When the vote is secret, no one can truly know who rules over them. The
fact that powerful interests manipulate the system in order to get the
results that favor them at the expense of society adds to the mystery.
People keep voting, expecting a certain result, only to get the
opposite.

Of course, the inevitable war on religion that is a natural part of
democracy means the other source of authority is slowly eroded. The
recent case of the Congresswomen holding orgies in her office is a good
example. Otherwise sensible people like
<a href="https://twitter.com/mattgaetz/status/1187338202266460165"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Congressman Matt Gaetz</a> are
baffled as to why this women resigned, because there is no longer a
moral order in America to rationalize such things. In a Christian nation
or even a Muslim one, Representative Gaetz would not so confused.

It is only through the shared belief in an authoritative common morality
where custom becomes a habit of mind. You cannot have ethics without
authority, so when custom and religion are abandoned, as required of
democracy, you inevitably abandon any sense of a shared moral order.
Eventually, the people, even their leaders, have no reason to support
the basics of society. A world of atomized individuals can only be
controlled with force and the cost exceeds the benefit

Of course, humans cannot live without a moral order. We have evolved
over a very long time to be a part of a community. That means being part
of a shared moral order. The void left by democracy’s obliteration of
social and religious authority is filled by all sorts of fads and spasms
masquerading as morality. It is how we quickly move from celebrating
homosexuals as perfectly normal to demanding
<a href="http://www.unz.com/isteve/the-woke-war-on-homosexuals/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">gay men put on sundresses</a>
and begin taking hormone therapy. Morality without authority is chaos.

In this regard, the crisis in the West is due to a lack of moral
authority. Democratic systems rest on the assumption that everyone is in
charge, which is another way of saying no one is in charge. Since there
is always someone in charge, those holding power work to conceal this
reality. Instead of powerful men standing before the public as leaders,
they hire servants to run for office. Once in office, those servants do
as their told, regardless of what they said to the public to secure
their office.

The charade of democracy inevitably spills into the culture as a war on
any institution that could provide a basis for moral authority. It is
not an accident that as democracy spread in the West, religion
collapsed. Then it was local civic institutions and then finally the
family. The waves of vulgar depravity that have swept the popular
culture meet no resistance, because there is no authority for resisting
it. There is no answer to why this stuff should not be tolerated, so it
spreads like a cancer.

In fairness, the cultural devastation that comes with democracy is more
of a dynamic than a causal relationship. The West was already in decline
when liberal democracy took root and it was that decline that allowed it
to spread. The dynamic between politics and culture is both a symptom
and cause of the decline. The fanaticism and insanity of the current age
is really just the final spasms of a society that has been in decline
for generations. Democracy is the suicide pill for a people out of
reasons to live.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
