---
title: "Bourgeois Anarchy"
date: "2019-10-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18788"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18788"
---

It is generally assumed that liberal forms of government like
parliamentary democracies and representative republics are middle-class
in nature. That is, they require a strong and stable middle-class to
come into existence, but they also foster the growth of a strong and
stable middle-class. Because the bourgeois are conservative by nature,
unwilling to risk their peace and prosperity, liberal democracies will
tend to resist radical social experiments or take on great risks, like
wars of conquest.

Of course, the history of popular government in the West strongly argues
against those theoretical assertions. Not only has the West been racked
by war, the peace that has existed for the last three generations is due
to the imposition of empire. The Pax Americana is the result of the
decades long stand-off with Bolshevik radicals and the final triumph of
the American financial empire. In other words, the results of liberal
democracy seem to be the opposite of what is predicted.

In fairness, one could argue that the last century of war and radicalism
were part of the birthing pains of liberal democracy. Prior to the Great
War, the West was still largely dominated by hereditary empires.
Radicalism was the result of the prior age, born in the Industrial
Revolution under the age of kings. The great competition for what would
follow hereditary rule was the industrial wars and the subsequent
ideological war, which was ultimately won by bourgeois liberal
democracy.

This is the underlying assumption of Francis Fukuyama’s book, The End of
History and the Last Man. The final triumph of the American empire of
the Russian empire was not just the end of the Cold War. It was “the end
point of mankind’s ideological evolution and the universalization of
Western liberal democracy as the final form of human government” He has
since revised his opinion on the matter, in light of current ructions,
but it is an argument you still hear from time to time.

It does not matter how you frame it, as the West is now dominated by
liberal democracy and the bourgeois sensibilities that supposedly
support it. Look around the political classes of the West and you will
not find exceptional men. In fact, much of Europe is now run by frumpy
middle-class women. What is remarkable about the ruling classes of the
West is not their mediocrity, but their uniformity. Every politician
says the same things and behaves the same way in office. It’s rule by
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automaton"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">automata</a>.

The horror that has gripped Washington for the last three years is not
about policy disputes with Donald Trump. It is mostly about style. Trump
is garish and flamboyant in his words and deeds. He is not a man with
bourgeois sensibilities. Instead, his tastes range toward the crude and
the base. The bourgeois hatred of Trump is all about the aesthetic. He’s
not one of them and he is not respectful of their thing, so they see him
as a threat, a foreign object that must be expelled from the body
politic.

Of course, this smug, bourgeois elitism is not limited to Trump. It has
become an article of faith in Washington and throughout the ruling
capitals of the West, that the hoi polloi is the enemy of democracy. The
great caper to rig the 2016 presidential election was as much about
thwarting the will of his voters as the man himself. Today, the
political class in Washington is proudly undermining the basics of
democratic order in the name of democracy. Something similar is
happening to Boris Johnson in Britain.

Washington politics is now an endless squabble between mediocrities over
trivial matters that distinguish one from the other. Because these
people all fall within a very narrow band of general talent, what makes
one stand apart from the other is little things that would normally be
overlooked. In order to avoid that, they amplify these trivial issues
and endlessly pick at one another’s small distinguishing features. The
result is endless hairsplitting and backstabbing over persona slights
and insults.

It turns out that bourgeois government looks a lot like everything else
in bourgeois society, in that it is debate about how many mediocrities
can dance on a pin. The reason for this is the great middle is not all
that great. If we use the standard of IQ studies and say the average IQ
in America is 100, that is the pole around which bourgeois society is
twisted. The closer one gets to that number, the more representative of
the whole. By definition, the middle-class is mediocre.

Further, the people who fall about one standard deviation above the
middle are going to be the people who dominate the cognitive fields like
law, polices, the media and the academy. That’s an even narrower band of
people. Relative to one another, they are even more mediocre. Walk
around a college campus and you are surrounded by people who never met a
risk they did not take. The same is true in the political class. What’s
remarkable is the near total lack of accomplishment outside of politics.

Critics of democracy generally point to the stupid getting access to the
ballot as the main flaw of democratic systems. If for example, America
only allowed males to vote, the political center would be somewhere to
the right of Ted Cruz. If whites were the only vote, something similar
would result. The argument from those very bad people who make such
arguments is that we have 30% of the population not built to operate a
Western style democracy. As a result, the system must fail.

Whatever truth there is to that, the reason for those conditions, for
stupid people getting the vote and foreign people imported to vote, is
the bourgeois political class, supposedly operating from middle-class
sensibilities, made that choice. The decision to expand ballot access
was not done by the king or the oligarchy. That was the work of
middle-class people supporting members of their class in political
office. The same can be said of open borders, where bourgeois demands
for cheap labor rule the day.

The fact is, a precondition for a middle-class is an elite that will
impose order and discipline that allows for the growth of a
middle-class. The bourgeois was never intended to rule, rather they were
built to serve. Put them in charge and you get what one would expect by
putting the inmates in charge of the asylum. The resulting bedlam always
requires a strong hand to restore order. This is why authoritarianism
always seems to follow every foolish experiment with democratic rule.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
