---
title: "Smollett Thoughts"
date: "2019-02-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-02-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16618"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16618"
---

Because I am not insane, I assumed the Jusse Smollett caper was a hoax
as soon as it made the news. It ticked all the boxes of a hoax. The
alleged victim was a black Jewish homosexual, who makes a living as a
drama queen. The alleged incident happened in Chicago, where the last
racist redneck was last seen in the 19th century. The incident happened
in a part of town that caters to deviants like Smollett, not MAGA hat
wearing Trump supporters. Again, only a nut would accept the story at
face value.

Similarly, once the hoax was made plain, I knew the believers on the
Left, by which I mean everyone on the Left, would go through the usual
phases that they always pass through when confronting disconfirmation.
Initially they would lash out at doubters, calling them blasphemers. As
the truth was slowly revealed, they would search for explanations to
excuse Smollett. Finally, once it was confirmed to be a hoax, they would
enter the phase where they admit it was a hoax, but claim these crimes
are common.

[This brilliant post](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14984) on the
topic goes into more detail, but the general explanation is that these
people need to be reinforced in their beliefs, and they need to
reinforce one another in their beliefs. Progressivism is a social
system, as well as a set of beliefs. The believer is not just defined by
his beliefs, but by his association with others. Much of the signaling
we see from them is not intended for us. Like fireflies blinking in the
dusk, they are signaling to one another. These hoaxes provide the
opportunity for it.

[The people in this
photo](https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=images&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwiImo3TyNTgAhWmnuAKHRd3BHAQjRx6BAgBEAU&url=https%3A%2F%2Fmetro.co.uk%2F2019%2F01%2F31%2Fbig-bang-theory-jussie-smollett-share-support-after-attacked-in-hate-crime-8422706%2F&psig=AOvVaw05Rcy5ZzpSZYWs0T8-7I5T&ust=1551104486966773),
for example, do not care about the details of the case or whether it is
even true. They play make believe for a living, so facts grounded in
observable reality are not important to them. This Smollett thing was
like a stage that suddenly popped up in the public square, allowing them
to climb aboard and perform. What they will remember and what their
coreligionists will remember, is that they were on board early and stood
strong for a victim of those terrible white people on the other side of
the wall.

It is why these people not only fall for these hoaxes but amplify them.
You can be sure that many of the people in that photo have fallen for
many of these hoaxes. The little Jewish guy, front row, third from the
right, is a barking at the moon anti-white. He really believes Hitler is
about to pop out from the bushes and carry him off to a camp. The next
time whites are libeled in some way, he will be right there showing his
support for the anti-white, regardless of how silly the claim. He is
consumed with a hatred of white people.

That is the thing though. Not only do these people keep falling for
these hoaxes, but these hoaxes are also becoming more common and more
outlandish. This one is so absurd, it would not pass muster with
Hollywood script writers. The University of Virginia rape hoax was also
laughably absurd. In other words, instead of these hoaxes leading to
greater skepticism, these hoaxes result in greater credulity on the
Left. It is as if each one is an appetizer, wetting the appetite of the
believers, who are desperate for the real thing.

The other side of this dynamic is the civic nationalists are close to a
frenzy, trying to prove the next hoax false, confident that this time
will do the trick. The Left, confronted with the reality of these
hoaxes, will throw down their weapons and finally admit, that yeah,
these things are fake. The fear of the secret invisible Hitler people is
all nonsense. During every one of these, the CivNats start blinking to
one another, working the details of the puzzle, confident that their
“eureka!” moment is at hand.

It is a good example of the central challenge of this age. Guys like
Steve Sailer truly believe they can turn the tide with facts and reason.
He probably has 25 posts on this Smollett thing. He has been working the
hate-hoax angle for close to two decades now, yet here we are anyway. He
is no closer to unriddling the hate hoax puzzle than he was twenty years
ago. If anything, the hoaxes have become more outlandish. Even so, he
will keep trying to use facts and reason to address a matter of belief.

No doubt, some civic nationalist types would argue that their project is
not about convincing the Left. It is about demonstrating to normal
people that these people are dishonest, crazy, or even dangerous. In
other words, using facts and reason is not about countering belief, but
about convincing the rational. The trouble is the Left is undefeated
against this strategy, and it permits them to own the moral high ground.
In this case, they were the ones defending the victim against those evil
whites.

Culture wars are moral wars. It is about imposing your morality on the
other side, no matter what it takes. It is why radicals have had no
qualms about using violence against their perceived enemies. It is why
Antifa exists. They are not trying to prove their case or win arguments.
They are about clubbing the doubters into submission. From the
perspective of the Left, this Smollett affair was a big win. They
reinforced an important point. They control the morality, and they will
impose it on society.
