---
title: "The Strange Death of Neoconservatism"
date: "2019-04-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17138"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17138"
---

Political movements usually end in one of two ways. One is they achieve
most of what they sought and then fade away, having lost their purpose.
Alternatively, they fail to achieve their goals, perhaps having been
discredited or out-competed by a rival movement, then fade into
obscurity. In both cases, they will kick around for a while, going
through a stage where they exist as a racket, rather than a legitimate
movement. They feed on the nostalgia of people, who originally supported
the cause in its better days.

An obvious example of the former is the crusade to legalize abortion.
Once the Supreme Court invented a right to abortion, the point of the
abortion movement should have been satisfied, but they transitioned from
that to an effort to normalize it. That was largely successful by the
1990’s, but by then abortion was good business for the people in the
abortion rackets. They make money on the political end, as well as on
the selling of baby parts side of things. Planned Parenthood is a
multi-billion dollar business now.

The other side of the coin is paleoconservatism, which flourished in the
70’s and 80’s, as a response to the infestation of the conservative
movement by former Progressives, calling themselves neocons. In many
respects, the paleos were not a political movement, but more like
antibodies released by the Right in order to ward off a virus. That
virus, in the form of guys promising to radicalize the Right, won the
battle and the paleocons were slowly purged from Right and from the
Republican Party.

That brings us to neoconservatism, which was spectacularly successful as
a political movement. What started as dissatisfaction with their fellow
leftists in the 1960’s had come to dominate the Right by the late
80’s. Domestically, they normalized unlimited immigration and the
financialization of the economy. On foreign policy, they successfully
pushed through their freedom agenda, which was aggressive war to impose
democracy on the Middle East. It is fair to say the neocons
revolutionized American politics.

It is that success that has discredited the movement and its leaders. So
much so, in fact, that one of the founders of the movement is now
abandoning his creation. Norman Podhoretz, one of the godfathers of the
movement, has announced that [he is re-branding
himself](https://www.claremont.org/crb/basicpage/an-interview-with-norman-podhoretz/)
as a paleo-neoconservative. He not only confessed to supporting Trump,
but now agrees with his old nemesis, [Peter
Brimelow](https://twitter.com/peterbrimelow/status/1118557624319000579),
on the immigration issue. He still defends the Iraq war, mostly out of
vanity, but he is now a war skeptic in the Trump mold.

Now, this does not mean the rest of the neocons are about to become
Trump supporters or demand the rehabilitation of Pat Buchanan. Like a
drug resistant virus, people like Bill Kristol, Max Boot and the other
Trump-haters will still be with us. It’s just that their movement and
its primary issues are on their way to the ash heap of history. Outside
of the cheap labor lobbies, immigration has lost its appeal. A
re-thinking of global capitalism is happening across the West and the
freedom agenda is thoroughly discredited.

There are a lot of explanations for why the neoconservative agenda has
crashed into ignominy. [Some
argue](https://americanmind.org/features/what-democracy-requires/) that
the failure on the foreign policy front was due to an inability of
neoconservatives to appreciate the cultural conditions required for
democracy. Others, like [Darren
Beattie](https://americanmind.org/features/what-democracy-requires/neoconservatism-the-lessons-learned/),
take this beyond the foreign policy issue, and blame the neocons embrace
of the blank slate. Like Marxists, they simply thought people were
interchangeable, because they could be molded into whatever society
needed.

A better answer lies in the words of Norman Podhoretz in that interview
with the Claremont Review of Books. In it he says, “But in the army I
got to know people from all over the country and I fell in love with
Americans—they were just great! These guys were unlike anybody I had
ever met in New York or in England or France.” That’s an odd thing for
someone to say about his fellow citizens. It’s the sort of thing a
foreigner says about his new neighbors. It also seems a bit forced, as
if he feels like is required to say it.

Explaining his change of heart on Trump, Podhoretz says, “I said to my
wife: “This guy \[Trump\] is Buchanan without the anti-Semitism, because
he was a protectionist, a nativist, and an isolationist. How did I know
he wasn’t an anti-Semite? I don’t know—I just knew.” Later he goes out
of his way to make that point again, that his quarrel with Buchanan was
mostly about his alleged antisemitism. Therefore, he can change his mind
on the entire neocon agenda, just as long as no anti-Semites are
involved.

It is a strange confession from someone whose life’s work has been a
multi-generational lecture about first principles. It is this
flexibility on their core beliefs that is the clue about why
neoconservatism has fallen into disrepute. They were never really
motivated by anything other than tribal animosity toward the people they
sought to replace. Podhoretz back-stabbed people like Brimelow and John
O’Sullivan, marginalizing them within conservative circles, for no other
reason than tribal animosity.

Another example of this is later in the interview, where Podhoretz
relates an anecdote about the writer Henry James, who was no fan of
Jewish immigration. Upon visiting the Jewish ghetto in New York, James
allegedly said “Well, if these people stay, whatever language they
speak, we shall not know it for English.” Podhoretz then says, with
noticeable glee, that “the only people who are reading Henry James and
indeed writing doctoral dissertations on him are the grandchildren of
those people.”

Taken together, it reveals that neoconservatism was never a political
movement centered on a native patriotism. It was a purpose built weapon
for people who saw themselves as strangers at war with people they saw
as hostile to their tribe. This not only allowed them to sideline
critics by calling them anti-Semitic, it was an energy source to
motivate the adherents to stick together and fight. Even today, as
people like Bill Kristol descend into madness, the neocons [hang
together](https://conversationswithbillkristol.org/) in their fight
against Trump. They stick together.

Ultimately, it was not the tribal hostility that was their undoing. It
was their unfamiliarity with the people over whom they sought to rule.
It’s easy to think one group of strangers are the same as the other
group of strangers. That’s why open borders made sense to the neocons.
Guys like Podhoretz could learn to love Americans, but he could probably
learn to love Guatemalans too. Similarly, the auctioning off of the
industrial base made perfect sense, as the neocons knew nothing about
the people losing their jobs.

Finally, the collapse of the neocons seems to comport with the theory of
Ed Dutton, regarding the decline in general intelligence. The generation
of Norman Podhoretz had a lot of smart Jews, who were motivated to climb
to the top of society. Their children and grandchildren, in contrast,
are like the ne’er-do-well heirs to a fortune. John Podhoretz and Bill
Kristol are quite stupid compared to their parents. This decline in
Jewish talent not only pulled down neoconservatism, but may be signaling
the end of the [Jewish
century](https://www.amazon.com/Jewish-Century-Yuri-Slezkine/dp/0691127603).

<img src="https://gab.com/media/image/bq-5cbc94e0e3e69.png"
class="alignnone size-full" decoding="async" width="1052"
height="824" />

 
