---
title: "The War On Reasonableness"
date: "2019-11-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19090"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19090"
---

The underlying premise of consensual government is that the people in
the society, at least participating in its governance, can and will
debate the issues facing the people in the society. By debate, it is
understood that sharp disagreement will erupt and personal squabbles
will inflame any disagreements. After all, men are not angels. In the
end, a consensus will form and all sides will accept it. Everyone
involved may not be ruled by reason, but trusted men in a civil society
are reasonable.

If you think about how a democracy must work, the assumption of
reasonableness becomes clear. If it is fifty percent plus one that
carries the day, the winner must acknowledge that a large minority will
not like the result. That means showing the other side respect, so they
will return the favor when they carry the day. On the other hand, the
losing side has to accept the will of the majority. Of course, it also
means all sides have to be ready to revisit the issue if the majority
got it wrong.

If you wanted to characterize the current crisis in America, a way to
frame it would be a war on reasonableness. It’s not a war on reason, as
in objective reality. At all times and all places reasonable men have
been motivated by superstition and nonsense. What matters is the
reasonableness, moderation and openness to alternatives, especially from
those with unpopular opinions. It is among those willing to reconsider
the consensus, where solutions are found when the consensus fails.

This war on reasonableness is most obvious in the reaction to Nick
Fuentes and his young followers. Reasonable people can disagree with
their opinions and reasonable people can oppose their tactics.
Reasonable people must also acknowledge that young people are prone to
getting carried away. Reasonable men cut young guys a little slack,
because they remember what it was like to be young. In the case of the
groypers, they are challenging authority, which is what we expect from
young people.

Unreasonable people condemn these young men to eternal damnation for
daring to question official dogma. When someone accuses Fuentes of being
a fascist, he is saying Fuentes is evil and therefore outside of civil
society. That is the intent of using the word “fascist” or the phrase
“holocaust denier.” Regardless of the pedantic quibbles about the nature
of fascism and the facts of the holocaust, the intent when using those
phrases is to anathematize, to declare the accused of being evil.

This is not a reasonable response to a fellow member of society. This is
a call for society to exterminate the invader, like a call to the immune
system of the body. They want these men removed from society as if they
are a disease. It is a hysterical response by people unwilling to
concede an inch to dissenters. This is how a winner take all game is
played. Those with power utterly and completely subjugate those without
power, in order to make sure they never challenge power.

If you are on the other side of these calls to exterminate you, how can
you come away thinking there is a bargain to be had with these people?
How can those in dissent from the prevailing orthodoxy want to cut a
deal with people who want them dead? The start of any deal is reasonable
parties willing to compromise and reach consensus. What is the middle
position when one side opens with a demand for your head? Do you agree
to give up an arm? A leg? Live as a pariah?

Even when you move away from the howler monkeys taking to social media
to declare fatwahs on the dissenters, those who claim to be reasonable,
stake out the most unreasonable of positions. When some sober minded
pundit claims that race is a social construct, a statement in direct
contradiction to observable reality, that’s not a reasonable position no
matter how calmly stated. That is making a concession to the
unreasonable in advance, in order to appease them.

In fact, indulging these crazy assertions from the woke crowd is a war
on reason and reasonableness. It is an effort to socialize pathology,
spreading the disease to the whole of society. It is akin to the doctor
spreading the cancer to the whole body, so that the patient stops
noticing the tumor. When this is what passes for reasonable debate, it
marginalizes the alternatives, thus normalizing that which is abnormal
and anathematizing those who still cling to the normal.

Many of the paid spokesman that the Nick Fuentes crowd have targeted
love to wave around the Declaration of Independence. The open lines are
their opening and closing statements on all things political. They
indulge the sentimentality, without understanding the intent.  That
document was a statement by reasonable men, no longer willing to bargain
with unreasonable men. Irreconcilable differences existed between the
colonists and England. The only solution was separation.

This is where the war on reasonableness must lead. Good men seeking
compromise will indulge the unreasonable for as long as they can,
perhaps long beyond where they should, but eventually they stop
indulging the unreasonable. At that point, there are but two choices.
One is peaceful separation and the other is those reasonable men embrace
unreasonable solutions to the unreasonable men in their midst. Ranse
Stoddard gives way to Tom Doniphon to end Liberty Valance.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
