---
title: "Unbear-a-ball"
date: "2019-11-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-11-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19153"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19153"
---

The weather last weekend was not very good here in Lagos, so I tuned in
for some of the football games. I used to watch a lot of college
football, but that has waned quite a bit over the last few years. When I
consume college football, I’m usually doing something else, so I half
listen and pay attention when I hear some excitement. These days, you
can rewind the action if you miss something, so this sort of consumption
is a lot easier than in the old days. You can watch the highlights in
real time.

One thing you quickly learn when you cut the cord, which I did years
ago, is that regular TV watching habituates you to the degeneracy. I’m
not sure if you get used to it or your mind just learns to filter out
the offensive garbage. Take a few weeks off, come back to it and you’re
appalled at what you see. It’s not just the degeneracy, which is a big
part of it, but the stupidity. Television has always been aimed at the
90-IQ crowd and that jumps out to you when you are away from it for a
while.

Something similar seems to be true with televised sports. Once you take
a break from watching these shows, the warts become obvious. Last
weekend I could not help but notice the volume of commercials in these
broadcasts. I was working on something and every time I looked up to see
what was happening in the game, it was a commercial and usually for
something alien to me. At some point I looked at some other games and
sure enough, they were all in a commercial break.

Of course, the commercials are atrocious. This is where you see the
propaganda effort behind all of this. Most likely, the typical viewer of
college football is a white middle-aged male, living outside the Cloud
People zones. That means suburban and exurban. That also means the sort
of guy who voted for Trump. Yet, they blast ads featuring race-mixers
and homosexuals. The products are things this demo is not buying, like
AIDS drugs and cloud services. It’s ruling class porn as advertisement.

At some point, I decided to watch until I saw an ad featuring anything
resembling normal people doing normal things. I gave up after about
thirty minutes. If a space alien tried to understand America based on
television, its conclusion would be that we are ruled by frizzy-haired
mulatto lesbians and homosexuals. Their main task is keeping the
simple-minded, almost retarded, white males under control. The TV ad
world is the complete opposite of reality and any possible reality.

As far as the presentation of sports, it is pretty close to unwatchable.
The endless commercials are a big problem for a casual viewer. I wanted
to watch the Ohio State – Penn State game, but the presentation was so
bad it was hard to watch. When it is not commercials for lesbians
enjoying their work at Amazon, it is insipid airheads talking constantly
while the players wander around between plays. Turning the sound off
makes it worse, as you see how little is happening on the field.

It used to be popular with the sporting press to bad mouth baseball for
being too slow and boring. The real reason they are told to bash
baseball is the game has not been Africanized. It is not a running and
jumping sport. There are no opportunities for the blacks to draw
attention to themselves with the usual antics. Putting that aside, the
slow pace of baseball makes sense in the context of the game. The slow
pace of modern football is just a way to squeeze in more agit-prop.

The ruination of televised football is one of those examples that point
to a deliberate, well thought-out war on white people. For a long time,
football and baseball were things most whites could share as a cultural
item. Despite the color on the field, the audience has remained
stubbornly white. It was the thing white people could talk about at the
office, without having to fear the PC police. Instead of leaving that as
an oasis, the usual suspects seem to have targeted it for degeneration
and destruction.

That said, the television ratings for this stuff have held up. There was
some decline, but the usual suspects have convinced normie white males
to return. The new thing now is the celebration of the black
quarterback. There’s nothing that stimulates the normie whites in
America more than worshiping blacks. White guilt remains a powerful
delivery vehicle for the repulsive propaganda around it. Watch an NFL
game and you get why the usual suspects hate white people so much.

That said, there is no way the country survives wholesale cord cutting.
Once you are free from this stuff, it is impossible to come back. The
old gag about baseball was that if it did not exist, no one would invent
it. Something similar is true of TV. If the nation was not already
hooked on it, no one would become hooked on it.  It is so trashy and so
degenerate; you can’t get past the revulsion long enough to get hooked
on it. My rainy weekend experience was just enough to turn it off for
good.

That’s why television watching will eventually be mandatory. Orwell got
most things wrong about the dystopian future. The one thing he nailed
was the video monitors installed in every hope. It may not be as heavy
handed as he described, but there is no way the usual suspects allow the
public to cut the cord. Without the daily dose of poz, there is no way
white people go along with their dispossession. The revolution comes
when the televisions go dark for any length of time.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
