---
title: "Eat The Rich"
date: "2019-01-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16275"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16275"
---

Elizabeth Warren is running for the Democratic presidential nomination,
so she is out making the rounds, boasting of what she would do as
president. She is planning to run as the weepy champion of the
middle-class, so you can expect her to say the “middle class is getting
hammered” six million times over the next year. She cannot be a culture
warrior, now that her fake Indian cover is blown, so she is going for
the bourgeois populism that used to be a thing on the Left, before they
discovered anti-whiteness.

Warren’s first salvo is a [wealth
tax](https://www.cnbc.com/2019/01/24/elizabeth-warren-to-propose-new-wealth-tax-economic-advisor.html),
which will be some sort of levy on those with assets over $50 million.
This will be in addition to the regular income tax, and she says it
will raise $2.75 trillion over 10 years. That is like saying the plan
will allow Big Foot to finally get the unicorn he always wanted.
Politicians love making ten-year projections, despite the fact that no
one believes them. It is just a way for the actors our rich people hire
to run for office to sound like they are something other than actors. It
is part of the role.

Portly polemicist Kevin Williams was ready to lead [the
charge](https://www.nationalreview.com/2019/01/elizabeth-warren-tax-plan-is-asset-forfeiture/)
against this new communist assault on the rich people who pay him to
sing their praises. That post is a madhouse of nonsense, but it is also
like reading National Review from 1985. That old crowd is still lighting
candles, hoping the Left will get back to talking like socialists, so
they can get back to pretending to be conservatives. Comparing what
Warren is proposing to the Soviet collectivization programs is dumb even
by the standards of Kevin Williamson.

It is also completely backwards. Historically, the radical position on
taxes is all about restructuring society and making it more egalitarian.
The Right took the position that the state was primarily in service to
the rich, so the rich should pay for it. Sure, the rich tax the poor,
that is why they are rich, but they pay for the state, because it serves
their ends. The Warren plan is hardly radical. Every state in America
has property taxes. Some have inventory taxes on business and asset
taxes on individuals. Asset taxes are common.

Of course, Warren’s game here is to pitch herself as the champion of
middle-class white women. Kamala Harris will get the black vote. The
question is whether she is [black
enough](https://www.dailykos.com/stories/2019/1/24/1829200/-Kamala-Harris-NOT-Black-enough-or-so-says-Tariq-Nasheed)
to get enough of it. Warren is betting she can scoop up the Sanders vote
and the box wine auntie vote, in order to counter the black vote. That
is why she is pitching this idea, which she knows will never happen. It
is a form of virtue signaling in order to shape the narrative of the
2019 election season, heading into the primaries next January.

Still, it is an idea that should be discussed. America has many problems
and is probably headed for a very bad end, but if reform is possible, it
starts with reigning in the out-of-control plutocrats. Everyone talks
about the racial and ethnic hostility, but one big problem is the degree
of inequality. You can make all the libertarian arguments you like to
explain why this is not a bad thing, but history says otherwise. Throw
in the outright hostility of the rich toward their duties to the nation
and it is a dangerous brew.

A debate about an asset tax also does something else that is needed. It
raises the issue of why taxing income is acceptable, but taxing other
things is taboo. Why do we treat investment earnings as sacred, while
the working man’s paycheck is fair game? Taking this further, why are we
using an industrial age tax philosophy in the technological age? The
world is a very different place economically, compared to a century ago
when income taxes were invented. It is time to think about modernizing
taxes.

Another thing worth debating is how tax policy changes the behavior of
office holders in a neoliberal democracy. Every shabby economics expert
in Conservative Inc. can lecture on tax policy and market incentives,
but no one thinks about how tax policy changes the behavior of public
officials. Income taxes encourage government to attract earners, not
builders. Countries become flop houses for stateless economic pirates.
That is what countries are in the global age. They are a pirate’s cove
for global capital.

Asset taxes could motivate politicians to attract investment that
creates wealth in the nation. After all, if the money available to the
politicians is pegged to the asset value of the nation, nationalism
makes a lot of sense. That is why the flunkies and coat holders for the
globalist class will be howling in agony at any attempt to debate this
idea. Income taxes serve the interest of the post-nation future. Global
capital is just a renter, always looking for the cheapest rate, with no
stake in the port where they find shelter.

Make no mistake, Elizabeth Warren is as dumb as a goldfish. She is
proposing this because the script writers hired for her told her it will
get applause from the demographic she is courting. On this side of the
great divide, it offers a chance to talk about bigger issues in
practical terms that disgruntled whites can follow. It also offers
another chance to be a thoughtful, intellectually serious alternative to
the sad clown show that in conservatism. The politics of the future will
need a tax policy to match it.
