---
title: "Biological Feudalism"
date: "2019-07-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18216"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18216"
---

The nature of all human society is that there is an elite that sits atop
the society, providing both order and structure to the whole. Because
the apple does not fall far from the tree, elites tend to be inherited.
The sons and daughters of the ruling class make up the next generation’s
ruling class. In Guatemala, for example, a small number of families have
controlled the country since the 16th century. Despite what the science
deniers will tell you, biology is a real thing and it matters.

In the West, this biological reality has been tempered by an
understanding that men of merit can be found in the lower ranks.
Cultural pathways evolved for these men to earn their way into the
elite. Originally this meant warfare. A great warrior and leader of men
could earn his way into the elite. Some of the great aristocratic names
of England, for example, were founded by the sword in The Hundred Years
War. Later, intellectual and economic prowess became pathways to high
status.

Now, in the Middle Ages, as Europe settled into a patchwork of ethnic
groups, those pathways were shutoff for people outside the dominant
ethnicity. Most obviously, Jews were blocked from holding high offices
or ruling over Christians. In the late Roman Empire and into the early
Middle Ages, these prohibitions did not exist, so there were very
powerful Jews in what is now Italy, Spain and France. They often played
a major role in the succession of kings and the naming of bishops.

What came to be the norm in Eurasia is that the ruling elite was
biologically of the people over whom it ruled. In the case of conquered
people, their elites operated like vassals, reporting to the elite that
ruled over them. This is the naturally occurring nationalism that Yoram
Hazony promotes for his people. Jews rule over Jewish lands and Jewish
people for the good of the Jewish people. Those minority populations
that happen to be in the way must sublimate themselves to the interests
of Israel.

This is not the model everywhere. In most of the Middle East, a small
minority will rule over the rest. The Alawites rule over the much larger
tribes in Syria. In Iraq under Saddam Hussein, his tribe, al-Begat,
ruled over the rest. His tribe was also of the much smaller Sunni sect.
In fact, the history of the Middle East, going back to the classic
period, is the story of small groups gaining control over large areas of
diverse people, who outnumber their new rulers by significant margins.

South America is another model where the naturally occurring nationalism
of Eurasia does not prevail. Throughout South America, the ruling class
is very European in appearance and custom. They sit atop a large mixed
race population that is often tribal, regional and multilingual. Look at
the political elite of these countries and they are very white. In
contrast, look at their populations and they resemble what the American
Left imagines for Ohio one day. It’s biological feudalism.

This organizational system is why America is being overrun with
migrants. In order for biological feudalism to work, the people at the
top have to be able to feed and control the population. It’s why
revolution has been a feature of South American politics since they
broke free from Europe. One faction within the elite takes advantage of
the other, by rallying some portion of the swarthy masses that are
unhappy. Revolution is really just a family spat over control of the
country.

It’s why everyone agrees Venezuela is a problem. There, the coalition of
the swarthy actually took over country. You’ll note that in a group
photo of South American leaders, Maduro is easy to spot. Granted,
there’s a lot of oil and gas to be sucked out of the country by North
America firms, but the reason the rest of South America has never
embraced the Venezuelan leaders is they represent a threat to the
biological feudalism that is the norm in South America.

In order to make biological feudalism work, the people at the top have
to be homogeneous and they have to be ruthless. Settling political
disputes within a narrow elite works when that narrow elite is what
amounts to an extended family. This was what European feudalism relied
upon to maintain order. If parts of the elite have loyalties that
transcend that of the ruling elite, then fracture is inevitable. People
will ruthlessly defend their own from outsiders. It is human nature.

That’s why this model is unlikely to work in America. The ruling elite
is too diverse to operate like an extended family. Even in the Imperial
Capital, where everyone knows everyone, outside loyalties loom large. At
Yoram Hazony’s conference, many of the attendees see America as a
resource center for their tribe’s war in the Levant. These are not
people who will sacrifice for the good of America or the American elite.
Their relationships in Washington are purely transactional.

That’s what you see happening with the Democrat Party. They want to be a
coalition that is white presenting at the top, with maybe some token
color, and the new coalition of the ascendant at the bottom. The trouble
is, they seem to lack the willpower and ruthlessness to do it. They just
<a
href="https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/editorials/democrats-just-purged-white-party-staffers-and-its-a-bigger-deal-than-anyone-wants-to-admit"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">purged leadership staff</a>
because they are too white. The tribes of the coalition don’t know their
place and the only way they can know their place is if the ruling elite
puts them in their place.

Most likely, the sort of system we will see in the post-national,
majority-minority America is one ruled by narrow power centers. Silicon
Valley will control the public space, but work with Wall Street, which
controls the economy. The intelligence services, with their monopoly of
force, will be another power center. These power centers will be
controlled by a small number of clans. The farce of modern democracy
will simply become a ritual that is managed by these power centers to
their own advantage.

Whether or not this is possible is debatable. The dirty secret of South
America is their organizational model was just an evolution of the
colonial model, supported by North America and Europe. Pull away the
support of the home culture and the natives most likely would have eaten
their elites a long time ago. The South American system transplanted to
North America, without external support, may just quickly devolve into
chaos, warlordism and then old fashioned authoritarianism.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
