---
title: "Understanding The Left"
date: "2019-06-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17777"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17777"
---

One of the strange contradictions of modern life is how the Right,
generally defined as not-Left, is sure they understand the Left, while
they are convinced the Left has no understanding of the Right. A
standard job in Conservative Inc. is the position of explaining every
event in terms of the Left’s motivation for or against it. Cable chat
shows have a roster full of these guys they use to pad out their
segments. Often, this is someone employed at some minor league operation
in Conservative Inc.

The argument from the Right is that the Left controls everything, so it
is impossible for normal people to escape left-wing proselytizing. At
your work, it is angry single women and bitter minorities lecturing you
on diversity. At school, it is the same, supplemented by emotionally
unstable coeds. In pop culture, it is the usual suspects peddling the
latest Progressive fads. There is no escaping the tidal wave of cultural
and political sewage that gushes from the Left, so everyone understands
it.

On the other hand, so the argument goes, the Left lives in their
isolated bunkers, free of contrary opinion. This is why they are
hell-bent on stifling opinion on Twitter, Facebook and YouTube. They
wish to be free of dissent and have the ability to isolate themselves
from it, so they live in ignorance of opinion and culture outside their
bubbles. There is a lot of truth to this, given how they describe people
like Gavin McInnes and Stephen Crowder as no different from very bad
people like Mike Enoch and Richard Spencer.

The truth is though, the not-Left really does not understand Left at
all. People outside the Left continue to believe, for example, that the
Left has good and logical reasons for the things they do, like <a
href="https://www.takimag.com/article/the-great-awokening-conspiracy-theory/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">woke capitalism</a>. In that
post, Sailer goes through the possible reason for the sudden rise in
wokeness, using statistical data to illustrate the emergence in the late
Obama years. He does not settle on an explanation, but the underlying
assumption is there is a good, or at least logical, reason for it.

Now, by good reason, it is not to imply morally good in an absolute,
transcendent sense of the idea. The Unabomber had good reasons for
sending bombs through the mail, at least as far as he was concerned.
From his perspective, there was no good reason for not mailing bombs. As
nutty as that was, it is comprehensible. The same can be said for
logical reasons. They may not be, strictly speaking, logical, but they
are at least understandable. The desire for power, sex, money and so
forth.

This way to trying to understand the Left, however, has one flaw. The
Left is not reasonable or even thinking through this stuff. There was no
meeting at the NY Times back in the late Obama years where it was
decided that they would run Emmett Till stories every time black crime
became a national story. There was no meeting among the heads of Big
Media to agree upon a strategy of pushing the Russian collusion hoax
after the election. The Left is not motivated by good or logical
reasons.

Instead, it is better to think of them as a school of fish. When you
watch a school of fish or a flock of birds, that is another useful
analogy, it appears as if they are coordinated in their actions. It’s as
if one of the fish is the brain, operating in secret communication with
the rest of the school, to have them dart left or right through the
water. It’s almost as if they were designed to be of one mind. We know,
however, that there is no conspiracy of fishes secretly controlling the
school using secret communications.

Instead, it is one fish responding to the fish around him. When the fish
on the outside of the school twitches, those around him twitch. The
cascade of movement happens so fast it is imperceptible to the observer
on the dock. The same is true of birds. That murmuration of a flock of
starlings looks like a highly coordinated ballet, but in reality it is
the result of a million reactions within the flock. That’s how the Left
operates like a highly coordinated religious cult. They are tuned to
react to one another.

This is why facts and reason are useless weapons against the Left.
People in the 2A community have all had the experience of carefully
explaining the facts and arguments of gun control to their lefty friend
or relative. They nod along, seeming to understand what has been
explained. The next time you see them, it is the same old shibboleths,
as if they have no memory of the last conversation. The reason for this
is the very definition of who they are is their membership in a civic
religion.

A part of every religion is ritual. Even the crudest, most simple of
religions have some rituals that reinforce the belief system. Those
ceremonies and rituals are physical manifestations of the shared belief.
Step inside a synagogue and it is nothing but ritual and ceremony. The
same is true of the Catholic Church. Old religions have had a long time
to develop and fine tune their rituals and ceremonies. Without those
rituals, the religion ceases to exist, just as the death of the body
kills the consciousness.

That is the power of Progressivism. It is a self-contained,
self-validating shared reality for the adherents. It’s why so few people
break from it. More important, its immune system has evolved highly
complex defenses against the way in which the Right prefers to debate.
Those appeals to facts and reason are quickly turned into fuel to
energize the believers into huddling closer in common defense. It’s how
the Left maintains its power. It has turned the enemy’s best weapons
into fuel.

It is why engaging with the Left is a tactical error. As much as
dissidents like to accuse the Buckley conservatives of being controlled
opposition, they never really got the value of the Buckley types to the
Left. They were not their designated punching bags. They were the
ritualized manifestation of the devil, the universal threat against
which the Left is organized. It is a reminder of why they believe, why
they must stick together and why they must fight by any means necessary.

An authentic alternative to the Left will therefore not confront the
Left, but hide from it, refusing to engage in the traditional way. More
important, it can never manifest in the traditional ways. Those white
boys in fashy haircuts at Charlottesville were the best controlled
opposition the Left has had since David Duke. They were what the
Progressive prophesies foretold, thus confirming the shared beliefs of
the coalition of the ascendant. It’s why Charlottesville looms so large
for the Left.

The authentic alternative to the prevailing orthodoxy will have to
evolve in the shadows and evolve its own immunity from the weapons of
the Left. Instead of being attracted to confronting the Left, it will
have to be repelled by it. The decisive weapon will be never manifesting
in a way that allows the Left to anathematize it. Instead of playing the
role carved out for them by the Left, the successful dissidents will
seem formless and inexplicable. The people in charge will never see them
coming.

If you like living off the sweat of others, then ignore the following.
On the other hand, if you care about your community and want to support
those working hard on your behalf, consider supporting my work by
donating the price of a beer or a cup of coffee at
Starbucks. <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">Five bucks a month</a> is not a lot to ask.
Unlike those mega-corporations, I will not use your money to destroy
your family and community. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC
P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
