---
title: "Our Revolutionary Age"
date: "2019-12-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19247"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19247"
---

If one were to conjure just one image to explain the French Revolution,
it would be of the sheltered and self-indulged Marie Antoinette saying
“Qu’ils mangent de la brioche” when told the peasants were starving.
Perhaps framing it alongside an image of the peasants in the streets,
desperate for food. The story is apocryphal, but it probably stands as
the most enduring image of the Revolution. The decadent and indifferent
ruling class on one side and the desperate peasants on the other.

Even though the story is not true, it works as an explanation for what
happened in 18th century France. On the one hand, there was a ruling
class that was increasingly out of touch, physically and culturally
removed from the people. On the other hand, the people were evolving
away from the ruling class. The growth of what we would call a
middle-class was changing the nature of France. It is the psychological
separation that drove the political dynamic, leading to the revolution.

It is a useful image to keep in mind as the political dynamic of this
age continues to move toward crisis. A reason the ruling class hates
Trump with such intensity is for them, he is one of the peasants showing
up at their party. He is the dirt monster, a golem called into life by
the evil Dirt People. It’s why his policy proposals and actions have no
impact on them. Their hatred for Trump is not about policy, but about
what he represents. He is the unguarded door to their world.

There is no better example of this chasm between the Cloud People and
the Dirt People than the ridiculous charade that is the impeachment
show. The foreignness of the whole thing is its main feature. Act one
had a collection of people with strange names talking about strange
places. Act two was obscure people from the academy. <a
href="https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2019/12/08/treason-house-judiciary-committee-report-trump-ultimate-crime/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Word comes</a> that the
Democrats, the inner party of the Cloud People, will accuse Trump of
treason, for the high crime of existing in their midst.

The thing is, none of this is very good theater. Instead of colorful
figures presenting their case in dramatic fashion, it is weird strangers
arguing on the basis of their assumed authority as rulers of the land.
The cries for impeachment are every bit as entitled and self-indulgent
as Marie Antoinette saying “Qu’ils mangent de la brioche.” These are
people so disconnected from the rest of us, they assume things about
themselves that no rational person would assume. They are hot house
flowers.

In a way, it is fitting that the inner party will nominate Joe Biden as
their nominee, rather than one of the minor party figures. No one on
stage captures the essence of elite detachment quite like Biden. This is
a man who has never had productive employment in the dreaded private
sector. Instead, his back story is a collection of entertaining fictions
conjured over drinks at various Washington watering holes. The story of
Joe Biden is a parlor tale for the entertainment of the ladies.

It’s why Biden is always ready to challenge some restrained old fellow
in the audience of his campaign events. This has been his game for
decades. In the fantasy world in which Biden lives, he is a tough guy.
The ladies in the salon all swoon when “Working Class Joe” breaks bad on
one of the staff. That’s because these people are living in a highly
orchestrated charade, in which winners and losers are determined in
advance, based on criteria that have no meaning outside the Cloud.

This disconnect is why senior members of the intelligence services were
happy to break many laws to spy on Trump. It’s not that they were
terrified by the Dirt Monster coming to Washington. It’s that their life
is a game without consequences. In the fantasy world of the Cloud
People, the worst thing that happens to you is you fall off a few invite
lists for holiday parties. Maybe you get a letter in your file down at
party headquarters, so you can’t get that sweet White House gig you
always wanted.

The much-awaited Inspector General’s report on the FBI will be a white
wash, because in Cloud People land, the only real punishment is a few
negative sentences in a report no one will read. Dirt People go to jail,
face real hardships and have to answer for their actions. That sort of
stuff is for the peasants, not the beautiful people who are defending
democracy. That’s just not how things are done in Washington. If the
Dirt People don’t like that, well, “qu’ils mangent de la brioche.”

This is why, by the way, the propagandists will never get in the same
room with well-spoken dissidents. Ben Shapiro was pantsed by a kindly
old man on the BBC, because Shapiro is incapable of defending himself in
the real world. The TP-USA people were humiliated by school boys asking
tough questions, because they have been cultivated to live in the hot
house of Conservative Inc. None of these people would last twenty
minutes on stage with one of the sharper dissidents.

This is, in part, what drives the censorship on-line. When the
propagandists opened their sites to comments, they assumed everyone
agreed with them. Then they found out that the Dirt People thought they
were foolish and dumb. The comments were closed. The same thing happens
on social media. These hot house flowers get crushed by dissenters, so
they demand the sites be purged of dissenters. They are pulling the
blinds down so they don’t have to look out at the peasants in the
streets.

Modern America is now a revolutionary place. Like the aristocracy in
18th century France, the Cloud People are incapable of reforming
themselves, because they are incapable of seeing themselves as we see
them. They have become entirely divorced from the rest of us. The people
who rule over us may as well be foreign occupiers, as they have no idea
who it is they rule nor do they care. To them, the Dirt People all look
alike, smell alike and act alike. We are not them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
