---
title: "Travelogue: Gatekeeper’s Ball II"
date: "2019-07-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-07-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18107"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18107"
---

The structure of this conference is a bit unusual, in that they have a
normal room for speakers to give standard speeches. The afternoon,
however, is broken up into smaller rooms where three or four famous
people will address a topic. Each person gives a ten minute address and
then they talk among themselves for a bit. Finally they take questions
from the audience. These are held in smaller rooms, so everyone has a
chance to ask their question if they like. I attended the session on
immigration.

There was someone calling himself Mike Gonzalez, who gave a short
history lesson on the origins of racial identities used by the
government. He launched into a critique of the Frankfurt School, which
had all the guys with yarmulkes nervous. They were talking into their
watches, probably thinking they had a live one. Trouble was averted when
Gonzalez changed the topic and got to his main idea, which is to remove
the race and ethnicity questions from the census entirely. It would just
be a simple counting of people.

This is so obviously insane that I suspect the Frankfurt School stuff
was some sort of diversion, so the audience would not think his main
idea was so wacky. His claim is that by dropping the race and ethnicity
questions, set-asides and affirmative action will be impossible to
administer, so they will be dropped. Once the benefits of racial
categorization diminish, according to his theory, people especially
non-whites, will stop identifying primarily by the tribe. We’ll all
become Americans.

This has always been the habit of Buckley-style conservatism. Instead of
addressing Progressive morality head on, they find an economic or legal
remedy to achieve a conservative goal, without confronting left-wing
morality. This approach never works, but old habits die hard. Then there
is the fact that we would have no way of debating immigration, as we
would have no way of knowing the demographic makeup of the country or
the individual states…

Another speaker was a women calling herself Luma Simms, claiming to be
an immigrant from Iraq. She gave a new age talk on something she calls
“rootedness” which is the opposite of alienation. Her basic argument is
that immigrants should not be made to assimilate, as the modern American
culture lacks rootedness. These newcomers should not be forced to join
the consumer race. That’s not a term she used, but it is what she was
driving at. She reminded me of a very loud Marianne Williamson.

Mx. Simms provided the most entertaining exchange during the round table
discussion part of the show. She said something along the lines of
“Immigrants don’t come to America to be absorbed into the culture.” Amy
Wax replied, “Then why are you here?” Surprisingly, Mx. Simms was
unprepared for the question, but she recovered after a moment and went
on a ramble about some hippy sounding stuff. She struck me as someone
with a lot of dream catchers in her home and lots of scented candles…

During the Q&A, a few people asked about what can be done to address the
flood of migrants and the speakers offered some suggestions. Finally,
someone asked, “Since the track record on conservative solutions to
immigration is not very good, we have to assume all of these ideas will
fail. What is plan B?” The whole room erupted and even the speakers had
to laugh. Amy Wax and Scott McConnell are both black pilled on the issue
and said we are doomed. The other two had no answer…

Socializing with people here during breaks, there are two groups in
attendance. There are normal people much closer to the dissident right
than conservatism, but they have just not made the journey over the
river. The other camp is the think tank people, media and government
functionaries. Washington is a company town and that means there is a
social scene. These conferences are a part of that scene. They use these
events to network and maintain connections to others in the scene.

For example, at dinner on Monday night, I was seated next a woman who
told me she works at AEI. I started grilling her on why she was
attending a conference on nationalism, when she works for a notorious
neocon outfit. She treated me like I was country rube who did not fully
understand the complexity of the issue. The fact is, like a lot of
people at this thing, she is here to mingle with friends. Keeping up
appearances is an important aspect to the culture of the ruling elite.
Instead of court, they have conferences.

That said, I was a bit surprised by the number of these people, who are
quietly black pilled on what comes next for America. That sense of being
oppressed dissidents makes a lot of sense in this context. These are
people who probably came to Washington with the best of intentions, then
saw it was a corrupt city full of people interested only in how much
they can loot from the system. In other words, from the inside they see
that reform is impossible, so whatever comes next will be from the
outside…

I have been thinking about why Hazony made such a big deal out of
rejecting people like Peter Brimelow, Jared Taylor and Patrick Casey.
One reason is he needs to rope in the Christian Zionists, which is why
David Brog is involved in this project. Brog is a fanatical anti-white
crusader. I heard more than a few people mention that his outbursts
about racism were unnecessary and unpleasant. Having a volatile crank
like that in the same room as Taylor or Brimelow would be a disaster.

Of course, this event is a sales pitch of sorts. The people from the
think tanks and government agencies will report back to their respective
home planets and talk to their colleagues about what they saw. If the
lizard people I’ve been mingling with the last two days are satisfied
that Hazony is not a danger, he can expect support from the community,
as well as the donor community. This conference is part of the vetting
process for Hazony and his team.

The sales pitch being made is a classic one in politics. The first part
is a critique of conservatism, which everyone agrees has failed. Then
the question becomes what will replace it as the dance partner of
Progressivism. The pitch Hazony is making is that the choice is between
his Hebrew nationalism and white nationalism. It’s the same argument
Martin Luther King made in his Letter From a Birmingham Jail. The choice
on offer is this thing you don’t like or something much worse…

This event has been a white pill for me. I could have done without the
civic nationalist bromides and the hooting about racism, but the fact is
the window is swinging our way *inside* the Imperial Capital. That’s not
to say these people are going to start reading me or showing up at
dissident events. It’s that they have taken the first step in this
direction, which is recognizing the threat on their Right is legitimate.
They are worried about us, as they know their kids are more interested
in us than in them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Support the media that supports you. While all of us toiling in the
fields of dissident media are motivated by a sense of duty, having a
place to sleep and food on the table still requires money.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. Or, you can send money to me at: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. I now have a <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> setup for those who
prefer that method to donate. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
