---
title: "Ruling Class Rage"
date: "2019-04-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16991"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16991"
---

One of the truths of life is that people tend to not notice what is
happening outside of their cultural and social bubble. It’s hard to step
outside of your daily life and see the big picture, as far as political
and cultural stuff. We mostly surround ourselves with people who hold
the same opinions and have the same interests. Those with whom we are at
odds, we navigate around and they navigate around us. We avoid political
talk with that left-wing friend, who still thinks Trump is hiding Boris
and Natasha under his bed.

Everyone, to some degree, lives in their silo, not thinking all that
much about what’s going on in the other silos, beyond how it effects
their thing. It’s why most Trump supporters are not surprised to see
Trump doing so well in the polls. They like their guy and his good poll
numbers confirm it. On the other hand, the remnants of the alt-right,
struggling with the passing of their moment, are still sure Trump is
going to lose in 2020, because he has abandoned them. His strong polling
does not register, as it is outside their silo.

This blinkered view of things is usually wrong, to some degree, which is
why it is a good idea to take a step back when trying to understand
something like the hearing on “white nationalism” in Congress yesterday.
[The House Judiciary
Committee](https://nypost.com/2019/04/09/candace-owens-defends-stance-on-white-nationalism-after-contentious-hearing/)
hearing on “Hate Crimes and the Rise of White Nationalism” was weird,
even by the standards of current politics. Even the people doing clown
world jokes could not have imagined a hearing where a black woman is
made to be the face of white nationalism in America.

To make the thing even more bizarre, none of the people involved in this
circus was actually white. There were Jews, blacks, mystery races,
various sub-groups of the coalition of the ascendant, but no white guys.
However you define white nationalism, the one thing everyone agrees upon
is it is mostly white guys. What you are not going to see at a white
nationalist gathering is a black women, who started her career as a race
hustler, hoping to become the female Al Sharpton of her generation.

Of course, the people involved in the circus can be written off as not
right in the head, but why would the Democratic leadership allow such a
thing to happen? Regardless of what you think about the people running
the Democrat party, you can’t say they are bad at the game of politics.
They are very good at the game, which is how they ascended that greasy
pole to leadership. Why would they allow their racial rage heads to run
wild and draw attention to themselves this way? What could they gain
from it?

The temptation is to answer these questions with your favorite
gratuitous assertion about the official Left or the official Right.
Steve Sailer has popularized the notion that these performances are part
of a master strategy to keep the coalition of fringes good and angry at
the dwindling white majority. White Nationalists see Candace Owens as
part of larger plot to keep white Baby Boomer arfing like seals at the
magic negro. Those things are plausible, but convenient answers tend to
be the least likely in politics.

Another possibility is that our political class is simply consumed with
rage to the point where they are defined by it. Who they are is entirely
dependent upon how much they hate heritage America and native stock
Americans. The circus yesterday was not the result of some clever plot,
but the result of people who hate whites so much they can’t stand to be
in the same room with them. Instead of actual white nationalists, they
brought in a black grifter to operate as the spokesman for white
nationalism.

Something Ed Dutton points out in his recent book is that in the later
phases of social decline, the ruling elites will often indulge in
various religious and cultural movements, hoping to restore the moral
center of society. The mystery schools flourished in Late Antiquity, for
example. Perhaps this weird anti-white rage we are seeing from our
ruling classes is simply the public aspect of a modern mystery cult.
They are play-acting at what it will be like when the prophesies come
true and we are a post-white society.

It may strike the more practical minded on the Right as a bit
ridiculous, but keep in mind that all rational explanations of left-wing
behavior have been wrong for as long as anyone reading this has been a
live. The conservative analysis of the post-war Left in America is known
for its wrongness. The Buckleyites got everything about the Left wrong,
which is why they failed so completely. Whatever motivates the Left to
perform these morality plays, we know it is not what conservatives
claim.

That’s the important take away from yesterday. It was a morality play
performed for people inside the political bubble. For the same reason
having a black guy play Henry V makes sense to the Left, having Candace
Owens play Jared Taylor made sense. It’s not the person that matters to
them. It is the role they play. Whatever practical considerations there
are for staging the thing, the one big reason for it was to stoke the
rage of the ruling class. It is their mystery cult and what now defines
who they are as a class.
