---
title: "Surplus Value Of Diversity"
date: "2019-10-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-10-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18800"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18800"
---

U.S. District Judge Allison D. Burroughs
[ruled](https://abovethelaw.com/2019/10/harvard-affirmative-action-supreme-court/)
that Harvard University’s admission program was a Constitutional
application of affirmative action. In other words, Harvard’s systematic
discrimination against Whites and Asians was, according to the law, not
discrimination against Whites and Asians. In addition to reaffirming the
second-class status of Whites and Asians, she wrote, “It is somewhat
axiomatic at this point that diversity of all sorts, including racial
diversity, is an important aspect of education.”

Now, in general usage, an axiom is something that is self-evidently
true, like the sky being blue or water being wet. More precise speakers
will use the word to mean “tautology”, something that is true in every
possible interpretation. To say, “It is somewhat axiomatic” is therefore
a rather tortured assertion, but revealing. It is the sleight of hand we
get from the kritarchy. Every alleged statement of fact is really just a
form of hairsplitting intended to nibble away at any notion of truth.

That aside, it does bring up some interesting questions. How much
diversity is a good thing and how much diversity is too much? There’s no
doubt that someone like the judge in this case would reflexively respond
that there can never be too much diversity, as diversity is an unalloyed
good. There’s also no doubt that like every other diversity fanatic, the
judge has organized her life to be around as little diversity as
possible, with a special emphasis on avoiding vibrancy. Revealed
preferences are real.

Clearly, even the people who say it is somewhat axiomatic that diversity
is important think a lack of diversity is important too. Put another
way, even the blubbering diversity fanatics assume some upper limit on
how much diversity is tolerable, even though they focus on the lower
bound in their proselytizing. Somewhere between complete diversity, a
place with at least one of every flavor, in perfect proportion to their
frequency on earth, and complete homogeneity is the sweet spot according
to the advocates.

Arthur Laffer famously explained that there is a relationship between
income tax rates and the resulting tax revenues. A 100% tax will result
in zero revenue, as no one will voluntarily work without being paid. At
the other end, where no tax is imposed on income, the net revenue is
also zero, for obvious reasons. Using [Rolle’s
theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rolle%27s_theorem), there is an
optimum tax rate between those two end points. In theory, this should be
calculable, so tax rates should be set at that point and left alone.

Now, we know *[the tax](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18679)* is not
a continuous interval, so Rolle’s theorem would not apply in the case of
these sorts of social taxes. Still, at one end, zero diversity and
vibrancy, we get something less than maximum happiness. Universal
homogeneity sounds good in theory, but in reality, people like to punch
things up a bit. At the other end, the multicultural paradise ruled by
the usual suspects, has nearly no social happiness for normal people. It
does not exist, because no one would tolerate it.

The legendary empiricist, [La Griffe du
Lion](http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/hood.htm), looked at the
correlation between the black population in a city and the white
victimization rates. The assumption is that blacks prefer to live around
whites, as they always seek access to whites. On the other hand, whites
are neutral on living near blacks, unless it has some impact on their
well-being, which is where crime is a useful metric. Whites move from
high crime areas to low crime areas faster than any group, having the
least tolerance for crime.

What the numbers reveal is that as the percentage of black residents in
a city increases, the white victimization rates begin to climb. At about
20% black population, the white victimization rate climbs rapidly.
Blacks commit crimes against whites in this analysis at 64 times the
rate of whites committing crimes against blacks. Other studies have
found different rates, but it is axiomatic that black crime is vastly
higher than white crime and it is axiomatic that blacks prefer white
victims more than whites prefer blacks.

Now, it is not somewhat axiomatic, but a universal truth that when
Progressives talk about diversity, they mean blacks. Therefore, we can
now put the upper bound on diversity as 20% of the population being
black. Any more than that and white crime victimization begins to soar
and awareness of it begins to soar. This sets off a chain reaction known
as white flight. Baltimore is a great example. Once its black population
crossed the 25% level, it began a rapid decline into chaos.

This does not address the other issues of diversity. Since it is
axiomatic that diversity is about blacks and whites, as demonstrated in
that court case, the obvious question is how many white people are
required to maintain the multicultural paradise? It is just assumed that
whites must be exposed to diversity, so they are not only beneficiaries,
but also a necessary ingredient. You cannot purify white people through
the healing magic of diversity if they are not actually part of
diversity.

As the examples of Rhodesia, Baltimore and now South Africa show, there
is some minimum number of whites required to keep the lights on, so
everyone can enjoy the wonderfulness of diversity. In the case of
Rhodesia, the number fell below the minimum and it became Zimbabwe. In
Baltimore, they have hovered along the critical number for decades,
always ready to tilt into chaos, but saved by the state. South Africa
staggers on, but they too are approaching the inflection point.

As [Steve
Sailer](https://www.unz.com/isteve/america-is-running-out-of-white-children-to-solve-the-problems-of-nonwhite-children/)
has pointed out, America schools are starting to run out of white kids
to maintain the diversity is magic assertion. Once a school gets too
diverse, no one wants to send their kids to it, not even the diverse, so
diversity requires a certain threshold of white people to make it work.
According to the data in that Sailer post, a good starting place seems
to be 50%. Once the white population falls below 50%, the negatives of
diversity increasingly outweigh the positives.

Another example seems to make the same point. [This
story](https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2019/02/football-white-flight-racial-divide/581623/)
about white flight from tackle football in America has some interesting
numbers. Again, the 50% number appears to be a threshold. Peak football
in America was when whites were 50% of the youth leagues, which
eventually supply the NFL. The decline in play and interest in the NFL
over the last few years also supports the observation. The NFL now has a
diversity problem, created by their efforts to fix their diversity
problem.

Taken together, the starting boundaries of diversity are no more than
20% black, with no lower limit definable, and no less than 50% white.
The diversity sweet spot lies somewhere in that zone. Given the
ethnocentrism of Jews and Asians, a hard limit on their numbers is
certainly part of the formula. Hispanics, a group that is a social
construct, should not be a consideration. Most likely, the right mix for
maximum diversity benefits is something close to what America was like
in 1965.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
