---
title: "Thoughts On Sportsball"
date: "2019-09-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-09-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=18548"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18548"
---

Sportsball has started up with college programs kicking off their season
and the professional sportsball getting started this week. Like most
dissidents, I have lost interest in sportsball, for the most part. I’ll
watch the college games, mostly because I tend to work on Saturday
afternoon. I’ll put on whatever game is available and listen to it while
getting work done. The professional games are close to unwatchable. The
media presentation is unbearable and the games themselves are not good.

Professional sportsball is totally poz’d up now. During their summer
practice period, there were stories about allowing girls to play. Since
a girl would get snapped in half playing sportsball with men, the point
of entry is kicking. A girl calling herself [Carli Lloyd is
contemplating a tryout as a NFL
kicker](https://www.espn.com/nfl/story/_/id/27466507/lloyd-believes-women-kickers-nfl).
Where this stands at this point is unknown, but the idea of it is
ridiculous. I’ve been to a lot of sportsball games in my life and never
have I heard anyone say they hoped to see a girl playing the game.

I’ll take it further and say I vehemently oppose adding girls to
sportsball. In fact, I’m OK with ending girls sports entirely. Girls
should not be playing sports. They should be learning how to be proper
women. Exercise is fine, but teaching girls to compete like men is as
dumb as trying to teach a fish to ride a bicycle. Sure, a bear playing
piano, a monkey drinking a beer and girls playing basketball can be
amusing. Building a society around freak show attractions, however, is
barbaric madness.

Probably the most vulgar example of this barbaric nonsense is female
fighting, like UFC or boxing. Reportedly, a [Chinese
lesbian](https://www.espn.com/mma/story/_/id/27505492/zhang-stops-andrade-42-seconds-ufc-belt)
beat up a white lesbian to win a trophy and become the first Asian
lesbian to do so. The sick bastards that stage this stuff would be torn
to pieces and fed to the dogs. The beta perverts enjoying these displays
should be sent to the camps. Only a degenerate wants to see women beat
one another to a pulp in a fighting ring. This is not how civilized
people treat their women.

The reason this nonsense is pushed on us is mostly spite. The fans of
sportsball are overwhelmingly male. The paying fans are overwhelmingly
white male. Since the religion of the ruling class is based in hated of
white males, forcing girls, homosexuals and exotics into the games is
normal now. Over the weekend, a sportsball player announced to great,
orchestrated fanfare, that [he is
bisexual](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/ryan-russell-nfl-free-agent-comes-out-as-bisexual-in-espn-essay-shares-photo-of-boyfriend-corey-obrien-instagram/).
The whole point of these stories is to ruin what little enjoyment white
males can find these days.

Of course, when normal men object to this crap, the response from the
usual suspects is “why does this bother you?” The answer is that the
whole point of forcing this junk on sportsball fans is to bother them.
That’s the reason they have girl referees and girl coaches now. It’s why
they keep trying to interject homosexuals into the story. The point of
the question is to obscure the fact that our cultural masters are trying
hard to ruin anything that normal men find enjoyable. These people hate
us.

Putting all of that aside, what jumps out when watching sportsball these
days is how everything is drenched in sentimentality. Instead of
presenting the two squads fighting one another on the field, the game is
filled with stories of how the various players had to overcome hardship.
You get the sense that the next revolution in television is going to be
a hookup that causes the viewer to experience sadness, anguish and
despair, as each of the heroic stories is relayed during the game.

It’s not just the television presentation. The coaches and players have
all been trained to complain about the difficulties they have had to
overcome in order to be in the sportsball competition. Every player says
no one thought he could do whatever it is he did and every coaches
swears his team overcame great adversity. The point of a sportsball
presentation is to convince the viewer that life is hopelessly rigged
against you and only the exceptions find any happiness. Just kill
yourself.

Presumably, the presentation is popular, but it is hard to know. The
normal people I know all complain about the way sportsball is presented.
Many have simply stopped following this stuff as a result. My interest
has waned, for sure. On the other hand, they say the television ratings
are strong, so people must watch this stuff. Then again, the ratings for
these shows are probably a lie like everything else these days. The
presentation of constant sorrow comes with constant lies.

The funny thing, though, is a key part of keeping the populace pacified
is keeping them entertained with things like sportsball. Allowing the
lunatics into to ruin it for the target audience seems like a bad move.
In dissident circles, you find lots of former sportsball fans, so a good
way to fight the dissidents would be to make sportsball attractive to
the typical white guy. Maybe these people’s need to hate us simply
overcomes their desire to rule over us. Hatred is a powerful narcotic.

On the other hand, maybe the hardcore sportsball fans can be counted on
to overlook the poz that is slathered onto the presentation. If you are
really into following your team, maybe you don’t notice the rest of it,
so the proselytizing falls on deaf ears. Those who notice either turn
off these shows or already believe the nonsense. The effort to poison
the minds of white males is just a waste of resources, maybe even
driving white males away from media and into dissident politics.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
