---
title: "Citationism"
date: "2019-05-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-05-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17502"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17502"
---

One of the irritating things about reading anything that strives to be
academic is the thicket of citations throughout the text. It’s not just
the end notes and footnotes, but the constant references to the work of
others. Often, the text reads like a summary of the work in the field,
rather than something original. Just as often, the text has the feel of
a paper turned in by a teenager, trying to prove they did their
homework. It is not just bad writing, it is a waste of time. It is
disrespectful of the reader.

It’s not just a stylistic thing, but a reflection of something that has
happened in the intellectual classes of American society. It used to be
that an intellectual mastered a subject in order to build on it. The
point of his labor was not to prove he had read everyone in the field.
The point was to find the gaps in his field and use the source material
as a foundation for filling some of those gaps. In other words, the
academic added to his field, rather than maintained it like a curator of
a museum.

This shift from speculation to memorization reflects the shift in the
culture, not just the education system. As a managerial system came to
dominate the upper reaches of society, the education system became an
exam system. You pass through the system in order to accumulate
credentials that open doors within the managerial elite. The system
began to select against people who question the current order. Instead,
the system selects for those most likely to support and defend the
system.

Of course, as the mass media moved from being a vocation to a
profession, it began to adopt the habits seen in other areas of the
managerial class. Commentary on current events is less about explaining
what happened and more about the writer showing they memorized all the
things that will be on the test. The opinion sections of news sites are
echo chambers, where each writer salts their text with the latest fads,
as if they are writing an essay for their high school social studies
class.

The banality is not confined to Progressives. The so-called intellectual
dark web is just as dull and cautious, but decorated with some risqué
phrases picked up from dissident politics. <a
href="https://quillette.com/2019/05/20/at-australian-ballot-boxes-the-lefts-empathy-deficit-came-home-to-roost/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Here’s a story</a> from Claire
Lehmann about the Australian election. She is sort-of from Australia,
but the post reads like it was written by someone, who knows everything
about the place from a text book. There are no insights or speculations,
just a long proof that the writer has read all of the approved source
material and passed the test.

She seems particularly proud of herself for using the term “champagne
socialist” as if that is a catchy insight. It’s just a different ways of
saying “limousine liberal” which was popular with conservatives in the
1980’s. Again, we see that strange echo. The New Left in the West is a
weird museum exhibit on the 1970’s, while the New Right is nostalgia for
the 1980’s. We have a generation of public intellectuals, who memorized
the political fights of their parent’s generation, but have no idea what
they meant.

The fetish for the citation also has crept into elite commentary.  In
books about current events, writers fill the pages with references to
other people’s ideas. Even in op-ed style pieces, there’s every effort
made to name-drop and preen about having read some famous person in the
field. Instead of trying to enlighten the reader, or even just inform,
the modern writer is like the kid in the front of class, furiously
waving her hand saying, “I know! I know!” Everyone is trying to show
they did the required assignment.

When people stop looking for gaps in their own knowledge or in the
prevailing orthodoxy, they no longer have much to say. The lack of
curiosity used to be the end of an academic career. It was when the old
guy was put out to pasture, gaining the “emeritus” label. Today, a
promiscuous lack of curiosity is a requirement for anyone entering the
media, the academy or the official public space. As a result, we have a
class of academics and public intellectuals, who are a circus of
banality.

Worse yet, and this gets back to the citation fetish, there is no effort
to make existing ideas accessible. The other role of the intellectual is
to explain complex things in a way that regular people can grasp. That’s
both a public service and proof you have mastered the material. In an
effort to prove to teacher that they have done their homework, modern
writing is so junked up with citations, references and insider jargon,
it is unreadable to anyone outside the field. Much of it is just
unreadable.

Perhaps this is just another manifestation of the end phase of a
society. Like an old man, who no longer has the energy or courage to
question authority, a society gets old and loses its will to question.
Instead of sitting around looking at scrap books and telling war
stories, the intellectual class reboots old ideas from prior generations
and repeats the same things over and over. It’s not that these people
were trained wrong. It’s that they are the result of a culture with
nothing left to say, so they just repeat their greatest hits.

To support my work, please
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">subscribe here</a>.
