---
title: "Travelogue: Helsinki"
date: "2019-04-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-04-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16930"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16930"
---

Helsinki is roughly the size of Baltimore, in terms of population and it
is also a major seaport, but it may as well be another planet. I arrived
from London in the afternoon and breezed through passport control. The
young woman who checked my passport asked me the normal questions then
asked me where I was staying. I could not remember the name of the
place, so I said it was the former prison. She laughed and said, “That’s
Katajanokka!” I was sent on through and headed down to baggage claim.

The Finns must have the best run airport on earth. I’ve been in a lot of
airports and the wait for luggage is a minimum of thirty minutes in most
of them. By the time I got to the carousel, my bag was there waiting for
me. I collected it and went outside to see a taxi stand right by the
door. The trip from the plane to the taxi was maybe ten minutes. Of
course, the taxi was a Mercedes Benz, which always makes me laugh. In
America, the Mercedes is the symbol of suburban affluence. In Europe, it
is the most common taxi.

Of course, you soon understand why Helsinki is a clean, efficient city,
as the taxi driver is a white guy, who speaks good English in addition
to Finnish. Most everywhere now, the taxi business is run by Muslims
from the Middle East or North Africa. In Finland, you just don’t see
many non-Finns, other than some Chinese tourists and white Europeans
here on business. I asked my taxi driver where I could find a ghetto to
visit. He laughed and said there are no ghettos in Helsinki. Everywhere
was safe.

After I told him where I was from, he then understood my question
better. He had been to the Imperial Capital in the 1980’s and still
remembered the squalor. He asked how it was now and I gave him the truth
about our multicultural experience. He figured out my politics, because
he then told me how important it was for Finns to keep the Muslims and
blacks out of the country. He also said their rulers were trying to
change Finland by importing diversity, but he was confident the Finns
would not lose their country…

The sun was close to setting, so after I checked into the hotel I took a
quick stroll around the area where I was staying. Katajanokka prison,
which is now a hotel, is actually on an island named Katajanokka. It’s
just over a short footbridge from the mainland, but it is still
technically an island. There’s a utilitarian vibe here. The Finns must
think form follows function, as the building style is not intended to
impress anyone. There’s a humbleness about it that can be mistaken for
plain, but it quite beautiful.

Katajanokka is a very nice neighborhood, where local big shots live, so
its lack of gaudiness is not due to a lack of wealth. It’s just that
Finns are never garish. There is a park named after Tove Jansson, the
famous creator of the Moomin books. These are a collection of somewhat
disturbing children’s books, popular in Finland since the middle of the
last century. There is the Uspenski Cathedral, which is an old largest
Orthodox cathedral. The waterfront is full of shops, food stands and
tourist stuff…

The next day, after my early morning walk, I found a nice little place,
in the side of an old building, selling coffee and baked goods. The
proprietor was Italian, an older man, who somehow ended up in Finland.
In his youth he had a spirit for adventure and enjoyed drug taking, so
one thing led to another and he wound up in Finland. He now has a
pleasant life playing music, when not selling coffee and biscuits to
people in his shop. I get the sense that many of the foreigners living
here have a similar story. They just ended up here…

I sought out where the Finnish rulers hold court and asked for an
audience with their ruler, but I was told that it was not possible. I
presented a letter of introduction, passed on to me by John Derbyshire,
from the honorable Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow, exulted leader of
Turkmenistan. Unknown to me, Sauli Niinistö, the ruler of Finland, is in
a quarrel with Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow. After some very tense moments,
in which flogging was discussed as an option, I was released and told to
report back before my departure…

The women of Finland come in two main types. There are the somewhat
cherubic type, with a hint of north Asia to them. They do not have an
eye fold, but they have the facial structure of Asians. These are robust
women, who get more robust as they hit their middle years. It’s not hard
to imagine them hauling firewood or a reindeer carcass into the cabin
during the dead of winter. All of the old women in my family have this
build. Facially, they really do all look the same, which suggests a
narrowness to their family tree.

The other type is at the other end of the morphological scale for
females. Unlike the more robust variety, these women usually have blonde
hair and they are athletic. Their faces are round, but lack the cherubic
quality of the former type. As they age, they maintain the athletic
build, but their faces show wrinkles along the jaw line, which is
actually quite attractive. It make them look wizened, at least to me.
Finnish women of all types seem to view men with good humor, as if we
are clowns sent here for their amusement…

You know you are in a different land the first time you use the toilet.
I realized this for the first time while in Mexico. The public toilet
was a hole in the floor and it was very public, in that there was now
stall. In nicer facilities, a man would be in the toilet handing out
squares of paper and offering to wash your hands. In a rich country like
America, solving the bathroom problem is not something we have faced for
a very long time, so we take this stuff for granted. We don’t think
about toilets and showers very much. At least I don’t.

Something I’ve noticed in Europe is the lack of water pressure in the
shower. I’m in a nice place in Helsinki and the water pressure is not
much above a trickle, relative to what I’m used to in America. My shower
at home can remove paint if you get aggressive with the settings. I’ve
never experienced anything like that in Europe. It’s always the
opposite, which is probably due to a need to conserve. America has
plenty of water and it is cheap, relative to most things, so we use as
much as we like. That’s not true in Europe.

That’s something we Americans don’t appreciate. In North America, we
have plenty of every natural resource. We could be energy independent if
we simply stopped selling oil and gas to foreigners. We have plenty of
water, plenty of places to throw away trash and so on. Buy gas for the
car in Europe and you quickly appreciate why we love our trucks and
SUV’s. Gasoline here is a little under $6 per gallon. The rental car I
will be driving to Turku this week is the size of one of the tires on my
truck….

Waste and water are two things that have popped into my head several
times during my short time in Helsinki. Everywhere here offers water,
even the coffee shop. I bought a couple of beers at the front desk and
they offered me a glass of water. On the other hand, the Finns seem
obsessed with wasting anything, especially water. In a few places, I’ve
seen signs that describe how much was wasted the previous day. I’m a
thrifty guy, so this appeals to me for obvious reasons, but it is a
strange thing nonetheless…

The Finns also obsess about energy usage. In the hotel, you have to
insert your key card into a slot near the door to turn on the electric.
Even the sockets power off when you remove the card. The point is to
prevent guests from leaving the lights on when they leave. A local told
me the Finns are very energy conscious. As someone who hates it when
people leave lights on in an empty room, I’m thinking this will be a
good policy to institute at my office. Maybe I’ll install thermal
sensors in every room…

Helsinki is one of the least diverse places you can visit, so those who
enjoy vibrancy, as much as I do, will be disappointed to find zero
vibrancy here. I mean zero. I walked about for most of the day and saw
zero familiar faces. The closest thing to vibrant, other than the
Chinese tourists, were some Indonesian businessmen. That said, you do
manage to get used to the sameness. I know, it seems impossible, as
diversity is our strength, but being in a place where everyone looks
sort of like you is relaxing after a while…

There is a Chabad outpost in Helsinki. I wandered past it on my walk.
For those unfamiliar, Chabad is a Jewish cult that started in Russia,
moved to Poland and then moved to America before the war. They have
“centers” in every country. President Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner,
is in the cult. One thing they believe is that this is a messianic era
and that Jews must prepare for the end times. That means their movement
must bring Jews back into the faith, similar to some Evangelical
Christian movements.

One big difference is [they think Jews should
revolt](https://www.lubavitch.fi/multimedia/media_cdo/aid/4339665/jewish/Should-Religious-Jews-Revolt-Against-Secular-Governments.htm)
against secular governments. They are a little vague about this, but the
main point is that Jews should have no loyalty to any secular
government. Funny how no one thinks this is a problem. If some white
guys get together to talk about white identity politics, the full force
of the custodial state swings into action. A worldwide cult preaching
the end times, with recruiting centers in every capital of the West,
including a man inside the White House, is no big deal…

Finland is a country of roughly five million people. According the most
recent crime reports I can find on-line, they had 63 homicides in 2017.
Half of those involved men of marginalized groups where heavy drinking
was involved. That’s a nice way of saying losers who got drunk and took
their disagreement to the next level. Baltimore, a city with ten percent
of the population of Finland, had 342 murders in 2017. Roughly 95% of
those murders were committed by marginalized men, by which we mean
blacks…

Before going to bed, I turned on the television. I speak no Finnish, so
the local shows are a mystery of white people speaking what sounds like
Klingon. The local shows have zero non-whites on them. Even in
Copenhagen, I saw they decorated their shows with some diversity. The
Finns have not done this, as far as I can tell. I watched something that
looked like a game show. The only thing diverse about it is one guy had
neck tattoos and ear gauges. Otherwise, Finnish TV is what our ruling
classes hate the most.

The exceptions are the American and British channels. The BBC is a
carnival of cloud people diversity. Imagine CNN with British accents and
British condescension. That’s the Beeb. The American station is a Fox
affiliate, playing the Simpsons and Family Guy. They also have National
Geographic for some reason. The commercials on these channels are full
of vibrancy and diversity. I saw an ad for razors featuring a black guy.
There was an ad for something featuring race mixers. We are ruled by
monsters…
