---
title: "The Supplicant"
date: "2019-03-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-03-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16699"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16699"
---

The professional right is often referred to as the controlled
opposition, because they have the habit of throwing the match whenever
they have a chance to win. This is happening with the Rep. Ilhan Omar
(D-Somalia) controversy and will no doubt happen with the scandal around
Rep. Ocasio-Cortez (D-Puerto Rico). Rather than take the opportunity to
twist the knife, the professional conservatives will jump to the defense
of their friends on the Left and attack those on the Right trying to
exploit the situation.

The term “controlled opposition” is a handy bit of rhetoric on social
media to help red-pill people, but it misses some important points. The
most obvious being these are not men thinking “Hey, I better find a way
to lose, so my real friends on the Left can win.” None of these guys are
that smart. On the other hand, the Left is not cultivating these guys
like the KGB cultivated traitors during the Cold War. There is no
control center in Arlington tracking the conservatives, instructing them
in what to write and say.

Such a formal set of arrangements would require a sense of awareness on
both sides that is simply not in evidence. There’s skullduggery, for
sure, as we have seen with the neocons, all of whom are coded to be
subversive. Even there, it is biology at work, not agency. They cannot
help themselves. For the rest of the so-called conservatives, it is a
lifetime of conditioning by a political culture that has created two
main roles. One is the priest and the other is the supplicant. The
latter is reserved for conservatives.

You see it in this Washington Post [opinion
piece](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2019/03/04/ilhan-omar-is-steve-king-left/)
about Ilhan Oman, by someone calling himself Henry Olsen. He is a senior
fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, a think tank in
Washington. In his post, he unfavorably compares Omar to Steve King, who
he assumes everyone knows is the worst person on earth. He thinks he is
a cheeky fellow by creating this parallel between someone the Left has
put on the proscribed list and this Somali woman. You see? The Dem are
still the real racists!

It is not all that clear whether Olsen is trying to condemn Rep. Omar or
forgive the Left for tolerating her. On the other hand, he seems to be
saying to his exclusively Progressive readers, this is the Washington
Post after all, that his side has learned their lesson and will have
zero tolerance for blasphemers in the future. In other words, in what is
supposed to be a post lampooning the Left for their hypocrisy with
regards to blasphemers, he spends a lot of time groveling to the Left
and offering them support.

*Republicans learned the hard way with King that where’s there’s smoke,
there’s fire. His repeatedly bigoted statements about immigrants were
condemned but otherwise ignored by House Republican leadership. Clearly,
they hoped that they were aberrations, or that the congressman would
come to his senses and keep whatever bigotry he harbored in his heart to
himself.*

*But that approach proved too lenient. Earlier this year, King finally
made indisputably clear what many had long suspected during an interview
with the New York Times, in which he said: “White nationalist, white
supremacist, Western civilization — how did that language become
offensive?” He had finally crossed the line, and Republicans — who could
not expel him from their caucus under party rules — removed him from all
committee assignments. (King has argued that the quote was
mischaracterized.)*

The trouble here is that the Progressive media smeared King, claiming he
said things he never actually said. It was then a pile on by so-called
conservatives that turned a cheap political hit job into the crime of
the century. There is also the fact that King was more than happy to
play along and go through the required struggle session. Omar actually
said the things that have Mr. Olsen upset and she is not backing down
from them. The only similarity to King here is they are both correct
about the topic at hand.

Mr. Olsen is a man whose morality is entirely defined for him by the
Left. They have declared it immoral for whites to cheer for their own
team, so he is enthusiastic to enforce that morality in his sphere of
influence. Similarly, any questioning of Israel is strictly forbidden,
so Mr. Olsen is physically incapable of even contemplating the subject.
It is not that he is sitting there, pecking out these sorts of posts,
thinking about how he can turn this problem for the Left into an own
goal. He sincerely believes this stuff.

Now, to be fair to those who are sure money is changing hands, there is
a financial incentive built into the supplicant’s life. Mr. Olsen gets
to write for the Washington Post, which is a nice paying gig. He also
gets $130,000 per year from [think tank
work](https://projects.propublica.org/nonprofits/organizations/521162185/201733069349300318/IRS990),
which amounts to showing up at receptions and luncheons. He gets [other
writing jobs](https://amgreatness.com/author/henry-olsen/) because of
his association with these well-known operations. Then there are the
books that no one reads and speeches at taxpayer funded operations. It
is a nice life.

To be even fairer, Mr. Olsen is probably a great guy. That is something
you cannot help but notice with Conservative Inc. Other than the neocons
and libertarians, everyone is super nice and very friendly. That is part
of what makes them great supplicants though. They are so willing to
please, so easy going in the face of humiliation and torment, there is
just about nothing the Left can do to them to make them angry. The Left
selects for submissiveness in its loyal opposition and they are good at
it.

That is the problem. It has always been the problem with the
Professional Right. A genuine alternative to the prevailing orthodoxy is
never generous with the other side. The point of being in opposition is
to turn everything against the other side, to advance your agenda and to
sweep the other side from the field. There can be no mercy, as the other
side will never return the favor. The Left gets this. That is why they
feel no compunction about attacking school children for the crime of
rooting for their own team.

This is why people like Mr. Olsen are much less generous with people on
our side than with his alleged opponents on the Left. Because his role
is defined by the Left and his morality is defined by the Left, he has
no choice but to defend the Left. An attack on the Left is felt as an
attack on him. If the Left is ever forced into retreat, Mr. Olsen will
be there with the other camp followers, padding along behind them.
Without the Left, he and the other toadies of Conservative Inc. are
nothing. They no longer exist.

It is why the so-called Right, despite the facts on the ground, cannot
stop themselves from stabbing the people to their right. It is not
professional jealousy or a fear of their donors getting vexed with them.
Sure, there is some of that, but those excuses always come after the
knee-jerk reaction against dissidents. Guys like Mr. Olsen are entirely
dependent on the Left to define their lives and give meaning to their
efforts. They are as much a part of the Left as the house slave is a
part of the master’s household.
