---
title: "A New Delian League"
date: "2019-06-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-06-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=17708"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=17708"
---

The Delian League was an alliance of Greek city-states formed in 478 BC
in order to confront and defeat the Persian Empire. Persia had conquered
Asian Minor, including the Greek city-states, which were collectively
known as Ionia. The Greeks had defeated the Persians at Marathon,
Salamis, and Plataea in the early 5th century BC, but the threat of
Persia remained a concern and the fate of the Ionians was a primary
concern of Athens, which saw itself as the defenders of the Ionian
Greeks.

As is often the case, the Delian League lost its purpose after the
Persian threat had been addressed, but the league never went away.
Instead, it quickly turned into the Athenian Empire, as Athens came to
dominate the member states. First the Athenians took control of the
navy. Member states either supplied ships or money, but the navy was
completely controlled by Athens. This made the member states entirely
dependent on Athens for defense against Persians, pirates and other
Greek city-states.

Then the Athenians took control of the money supply. Initially, a
treasury was established on the sacred island of Delos in the Cyclades,
hence the name of the alliance. Every member state was assessed an
amount they had to contribute annually to the common treasury. The
treasury was moved to Athens and each member state was required to pay
tribute, based on an assessment set by Athens. For all practical
purposes, the league was now an empire ruled by Athens.

This bit of ancient Greek history is useful to keep in mind when looking
at what is happening in the West. The EU is the new Delian League, with
Brussels playing the role of Athens. The European Union is an economic
empire, so controlling the military is not important, especially since
Europe is entirely dependent upon the United States for its defense. Any
attempt by one state to use force against another would bring in the
United States. That and Brussels does not control any military assets.

Instead, the European elite uses money to control the empire. Former
Belgian prime minister and current leader of the Alliance of Liberals
and Democrats in Europe, Guy Verhofstadt, <a
href="https://edition.cnn.com/2019/05/20/europe/guy-verhofstadt-interview-europe-lmcgee-intl/index.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">said as much</a> in a recent
interview. In the view of European elites, the member states of Europe
must abandon all of their sovereignty and become members of a European
empire. Just as the member states of the Delian League would exist, but
as subjects to Athens, the nations of Europe will be subjects of
Brussels.

There are three problems with this analogy, as well as the motivating
philosophy behind the concept. One is the Europeans have no military to
speak of, at least not one that Brussels could use to project power. The
Italians have a respectable military and the French still have some
useful military units, but Brussels has nothing. It is one thing to
crater the Greek economy, as Brussels did when SYRIZA tried to revolt.
It is another to pull down her walls and take hostages as Athens did to
<a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naxos#Classical_era_and_Greco-Persian_Wars"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Naxos</a> in 476 BC.

Another problem, perhaps the biggest problem, with this analogy is the
Delian League had a clear idea of the enemy. First they had the Persian
Empire against whom they were defending the Greeks. That gave the League
a clear purpose. Then in the war with Sparta, Athens was defending Greek
democracy against tyranny. The current European elite is anti-democratic
and it is unwilling to defend Europe against the Persia of this age,
which is peripatetic Arabs and Africans.

The final problem with the analogy is the fact that Europe remains a
province of the American Empire, which is the continuation of the
British Empire. The Anglosphere continues to control the world,
militarily, economically and culturally. That last bit is probably the
most important regarding Europe. Walk through a shopping district in
Europe and it reeks of American ghetto culture. The news in Europe is
more about America than Europe. Brussels is playing at empire, but
remains a vassal.

In that regard, this reality may explain why the American foreign policy
elite is silent on Trump’s support for Brexit. His idea for a free trade
and travel zone for the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Eyes"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five Eyes</a> nations would
solve a problem for dealing with Europe. If Brussels wants to have
access to the vast trove of signal intelligence held by the Anglosphere,
they have to play ball with the Anglosphere. This would allow the United
State to reduce its footprint in Europe, thus lowering the cost of
controlling the Europeans.

Putting that aside, the utility of this analogy is that even with
control of the military and the money supply, the Athenians were never
able to make their empire work. Even controlling some of Greece put them
at odds with Sparta. The Peloponnesian War ended with the defeat of
Athens at <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Aegospotami"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Battle of Aegospotami</a>, but
the cost of maintaining their empire was bleeding them dry. Most
historians think the strategy of Pericles would have bankrupted the
Athenians in a year or two, even if they won at Aegospotami.

That seems to be what is happening with the European Union. The revolt
of the Greeks when SYRIZA came to power was a glimpse of what was
coming. Now it is the Italians that are challenging the economic rule of
Brussels. The cost of putting down that revolt will be orders of
magnitude higher than suppressing the Greeks. The eventual withdraw of
Britain will undermine much of the legitimacy and authority of Brussels,
as Britain is unlikely to perish without protection from Brussels.

Then there are the populist movements that keep boiling up in every EU
country, even core countries like Germany and France. As we see in the
United States, the ruling class is petrified of these movements. They
are willing to go to great lengths to suppress them, but the cost is
becoming increasingly high. More important, suppression efforts seem to
be converting more people to populism and nationalism. At some point in
the near future, Brussels will be faced with its Aegospotami.

To support my work, <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer">please contribute here</a>.

Or, You can send money to me at: P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD
21030-0432
