---
title: "The Suicide Cult"
date: "2019-12-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-12-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19265"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19265"
---

This week, police in Manchester England announced they have finally
solved the most heinous crime in that city’s history. A man has been
arrested for allegedly making racist gestures during the Premier League
clash between Manchester City and Manchester United at the Etihad
Stadium on Saturday. Residents were told, however, to remain sheltered
in place, as it had not yet been determined if the man arrested was the
monster in question or if he had been acting alone.

Assuming he is the person responsible for being mean to a ball player,
this arrest will put an end to one of the most terrifying periods in the
city’s history. “Racism of any kind has no place in football or our
society and I hope this arrest shows that we are taking this matter
extremely seriously”, said Superintendent Chris Hill of the City of
Manchester’s Major Crimes Division. The police have promised to work
with both clubs to make sure players on both sides have been comforted.

The player in question, who calls himself “Fred”, told local media,
“Unfortunately, this is happening in some stadiums. It happened here, it
happened in Ukraine with some friends. It’s sad, but we have to keep our
heads up and forget about that.” Fred, who had heroically kicked the
ball to several other players during the match, showed his unmatched
courage by continuing to live, even after having been victimized by the
monstrous crimes perpetrated by the racist devil in the stands.

The Manchester midfielder, also added that the country that gave the
world civilization and made it possible for him to live like royalty,
rather than chasing gazelles on the African plain, was a “backward
society.” He added, “We are all the same regardless of skin color, hair
and gender. We came from the same place and we all go to the same place
when it’s all said and done.” The white people in the club have promised
to grovel as much as necessary for some reason no one can explain.

If the above sounds like a joke story to you from The Babylon Bee or The
Onion, well, the joke is on you. [It is a true
story](https://www.espn.com/soccer/manchester-united/story/4008579/man-city-vs-man-united-racist-incident-greater-manchester-police-make-arrest).
Not only did the city of Manchester England stop everything in order to
investigate a rude gesture in the stands of a sportsball game, they
arrested someone for being mean. Even more hilariously, they held a
press conference so they could parade their self-righteous indignation.
This is the state of the country about to elect a new government today.

Like America, anti-racism has become a religion in England. It is the
thing the ruling class worries about the most, with regards to
maintaining order. Crime is of no interest to them, as evidenced by the
tolerance of Muslim rape gangs. Instead, they busy themselves making
sure the natives do not upset the newcomers that flood into the country
by the thousands. Manchester was entirely white a few generations ago,
but today it is 65% white and headed the same way as London.

This new religion that originated in America and spread to the rest of
the empire over the last few generations is really an anti-religion.
There is nothing positive of optimistic about it. It is mostly a
decoration for a deep hatred of normal white people. We see this in the
prosecution of white people for the crime of being white. A [law school
student](http://www.theamericanmirror.com/law-school-student-interrogated-by-fbi-expelled-over-its-okay-to-be-white-flyers/)
has been expelled for posting bulletins that read, ‘It Is OK To Be
White.” He was investigated by the FBI, before being expelled from
school.

Just in case the point is not obvious, if it is not okay to post flyers
that say “it is okay to be white”, but you can post flyers about other
matters, then the issue is not the posting of flyers. It is the content
of the flyers. The people running the school, like the people running
the West, are saying it is not okay to be white. Whiteness, as they like
to put it, is a crime against the future. After all, “Fred” the black
sportsball player is the future, not the people who made it possible for
Fred to exist at all.

As religions go, of course, it is completely insane. You can be sure
that the fans supporting the local sportsball clubs in Manchester
England are white. The growing number of Muslims from over the horizon
are not the customer base. If those white fans suddenly decide they like
being white and hate being lectured, the sportsball clubs go out of
business. This is true for every institution in Western society. Without
white people, the whole thing returns to a pre-modern state.

For future people like Fred, a world without white people is going to
look a lot like the past created by his people. He will back to sitting
on a log, pondering his next meal as he scratches himself through his
loin cloth. You see, Fred’s people never made it to the wheel or written
language until the white man arrived. Everything Fred is, he owes to the
people of that white guy now sitting in jail, but Fred feels no
gratitude. Why would he? Fred is the future and the old white guy is the
past.

Throwing blasphemers in dungeons is what theocracies do and that’s what
we see all over the West, particularly the English-speaking countries.
England, like America, is a theocracy now. It’s not a religion built
around a god or gods. It is not a collection of beliefs about our moral
purpose or how best to gain salvation. It is a religion built around the
hatred of white people largely by white people. It’s not just white
self-hatred, obviously, but that is certainly a major component.

Maybe this is the natural end of Enlightenment ideas. Maybe this is the
end result of liberal democracy. Perhaps this is what happens when a
people are subverted from within by people blue in the face over old
grievances. While interesting to ponder, what matters is the West is now
a suicide cult. The people in charge are slowly, inexorably leading the
people into mass suicide. It’s not going to be a dramatic denouement,
just a slow shuffling of one white blasphemer after another into the
dungeon.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
