---
title: "The American Jizya"
date: "2019-01-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-01-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16067"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16067"
---

It used to be that social reformers would talk about the day when racism
has been eliminated from society. They would quote Martin Luther King’s
“I Have a Dream” speech, suggesting the goal was a colorblind society.
The only people to say this today are clueless civic nationalists and
so-called conservative pundits. The former are always behind the times
and the latter is here to run cover for the Left. In the game of racism,
the caravan has moved onto a new wave, the [third wave of
anti-racism](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2018/12/why-third-wave-anti-racism-dead-end/578764/).

Like feminism, anti-racism has reinvented itself to meet the challenges
of the multicultural age, particularly considering the new demographics.
Blacks griping about whites is not of much use when you have varieties
of Hispanic, Muslims, Asians, Jews, and lifestyle degenerates. The new
challenges of the majority-minority empire require a new kind of
anti-racism and a new kind of racism for it to oppose. The new racism is
exotic and mysterious, while the anti-racist is fighting a spiritual
fight, not a legal one.

Eric Hoffer saw that people involved in causes never reach a point where
they say the cause has achieved its goals and therefore can disband and
cease its activities. For example, anti-smoking zealots have
accomplished all that can be accomplished, yet they persist. The same is
true of drunk driving activists. Short of martial law, there is not much
left to do about drunk driving and smoking. Yet, the pressure groups
behind these causes still raise money and agitate for attention.

The same thing has happened with the various causes of Progressivism.
Something like environmentalism has evolved into a weird nature cult,
with apocalyptic predictions backed by flimsy science. Feminism is
pretty much a nonsensical collection of tantrums sporting bizarre lingo
and outfits. Anti-racism has moved from demands for equity before the
law and mitigation for past racism, to a semi-permanent regime that
includes groups, who voluntarily left their homelands for the white
nations they now despise.

As a practical matter, so-called “third wave anti-racism” is just a
demand by non-whites that whites mitigate the realities of biology. They
cannot say that, so they must use weird language and comical
neologisms. The demand is that whites exhaust themselves maintaining a
white bourgeois society, so that non-whites can enjoy first world
comfort, without having to maintain it themselves. The new white man’s
burden is whites living as despised helots in the societies they
created.

For example, whites are supposed to solve the black crime problem but
not notice that black men commit a lot of crime. No one is supposed to
mention that blacks do not cooperate with police. The justification for
the former is the history of racism, while the latter is excused as
blacks not wanting to attract attention to the black community. Whites
are supposed to work around the realities of the black community, while
mitigating the realities of the black community. This is impossible and
unreasonable.

Another example is how non-whites expect to be allowed into elite
schools. In the name of diversity, the elite colleges decorate each
class with vibrancy. The professors are expected to make sure these
students graduate and [never
mention](https://www.thecollegefix.com/conservative-professor-mulls-defamation-suit-against-penn-for-saying-she-made-up-black-student-stats/)
that they make up the bottom third of the class. Once out in the world,
the process starts over as law firms hoover up non-whites to meet their
diversity quota. Of course, no one is supposed to notice that these
lawyers are not very good at being lawyers.

Then you have the central tenet of third wave anti-racism, which is that
whites, just by being white, are a burden on non-whites. Because whites
want the best for their kids and want to live in safe neighborhoods, it
means they live in places without convenient bus service. This is a
burden on non-whites, as they do not have easy access to whites and the
societies they create. This is so-called white privilege. The only way
to eliminate this is to eliminate white behavior, which would end the
modern society.

Instead, the new anti-racism regime is one where every white person is
born guilty, tainted by the original sin of white racism. Therefore,
just as man was condemned to toil outside of the Garden of Eden for
eternity, whites are now condemned to pay the
[jizya](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jizya) in order to keep non-whites
in comfortable modern lifestyles. That means open borders for formerly
white countries and a metastasizing set of rules to govern the thoughts
and speech of whites. The American jizya is about keeping non-whites
happy.

That is the core argument of Ta-Nahesi Coates. In [his jeremiad in favor
of
reparations](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2014/06/the-case-for-reparations/361631/),
you’ll note he never actually puts a number on it. Reparations are, by
definition, about making the other party whole. Coates rejects that such
a number exists, because what he means by reparations is a recitation.
He demands an endless recitation of the crimes committed by whites
against blacks. This is to both punish whites in a material sense and to
remind them that they are now in an inferior position.

To understand the social justice movement, one must first replace the
word “justice” with the word “vengeance.” It is not about settling the
books or making anyone whole. It is about establishing a new hierarchy
in which whites are the infidels of the new multicultural empire,
forever paying the jizya to keep modern society rolling. The point of
the tax is not just to finance the system, but to lock in the moral
relationships of the new multicultural empire, because it cannot exist
without the jizya.
