---
title: "Tanking It"
date: "2019-03-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2019-03-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Greatest Hits
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=16662"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=16662"
---

*Note: No podcast this week. The day job has consumed almost all of my
time, so I was unable to put anything together. I’ll be back next week.*

While burning the midnight oil on a project, I put on [a
documentary](https://www.amazon.com/Tanks/dp/B07GJ1LZXX) about the
evolution of the battle tank in World War II. It looks like it was done
by the Brits, as all of the experts were British. Most of it was
archival footage, so maybe it was made by an American company. Most of
these things are just bits from prior shows cobbled together with a new
narrator. As documentaries go, it was mediocre, but it made noise and it
was free, so it was good company while I was working on other things.

One interesting thing about tank evolution that never gets mentioned in
America is just how good the Soviets were at making tanks. The Germans
are always assumed to have been the great tank builders, followed by the
Americans, but it was the Russians who dominated the field in the tank
game. Russian tanks were fast, powerful, and easy to operate by their
crews. Most important, they were reliable in all weather. The Russians
assumed they would be fighting in horrible conditions and built a tank
for it.

The Germans, in contrast, made one error after another when it came to
tank design and tank building. They were obsessed with coming up with
the biggest, most powerful tank, rather than making lots of good enough
tanks. The result was lots of innovative designs, but most were failures
and there were never enough of them. The Panzer IV was a very good tank
with a platform that was flexible, but the Germans kept trying to come
up with a super tank, rather than make lots of these. That was a costly
error.

The American tank, which was used by the British, was not a great tank,
but they were cheap and reliable, which meant there were loads of them.
It was also a flexible platform for all sorts of other uses. The Sherman
tank was about using the two advantages the Americans had over the
Germans. One was more industry and the other was more soldiers. The plan
was to beat the Germans with volume. While it would take five Sherman
tanks to take out a German tank, that was math that worked in favor of
the Americans.

This conflict between the perfect and the good enough showed up in many
places during the war. The Germans seemed to look at the whole thing as
an engineering project. The first step was to accept the restraints and
then solve for the variables. The Russian and American view was always
to limit the constraints and thereby increase the number of possible
right answers. The Germans had much better human capital, but their
opponents always had many more choices. They also had numbers, which
count for a lot.

When you apply this conflict between the perfect and the good enough to
modern warfare, the American military looks a lot like the Germans. The
quest for the perfect fighter jet has led to the F-35 boondoggle.
Instead of pouring billions into these white elephants, the money could
be used to build swarms of cheap drones, but no one is getting rich from
making cheap and useful military gear. The same thing is true with sea
power. American warships are technical masterpieces, but probably
useless in a real war.

This comparison raises the question that perhaps there is a parallel
between the state of human capital in the American elite and the German
elite during the war. The German soldiers were the best in the world,
but the people further up the line were not the best tacticians. At the
upper reaches, the strategists were terrible in all sorts of ways,
starting with Hitler, who was laughably inept at running a war. Winning
was never an option, but the Germans could have avoided total
obliteration if they had better leaders.

The blame for this is always put on Hitler and that is a good place to
start, but the Germans had a brain power problems throughout the
planning layer. This is obvious in how they went about making tanks.
Instead of going for a tank that was cheap and easy to produce by a
civilian workforce, they tried to build tanks that were complex and
required specialists to produce. The effects of allied bombing raids
were amplified by this strategic blunder in production planning. This is
a very basic error in planning and execution.

One possible cause of this was that the middle-aged men who would have
been sorting these production and design problems had died during the
Great War. The German army tended to “use up” their units, rather than
cycle them in and out of lines. That meant that a lot of experience with
supply and logistics was lost in the trenches. The British and the
Americans rotated units in an out of the lines, thus they came out of
the war with a vast number of people with experience in the nuts and
bolts of war fighting.

The current ruling class needs the Germans to be seen as the ultimate in
super villains, but the truth is the Germans were dumb about a lot of
important things. The Russians came up with slopped armor, for example,
and the Germans never bothered to steal the idea, even after Kursk. The
Germans got their hands on the Churchill tank but never bothered to
learn anything from it. They never learned from the Americans how to use
communications to coordinate their artillery and their armor.

In many respects, the story of the tank in the war is a great proxy for
the story of human capital and cultural intelligence. The Germans had
the best trained military on earth, but they lacked human capital in the
strategy and tactics layer. Either the culture was unable to produce it
or there were simply not enough smart people to create the necessary
smart fraction. That was ultimately why Germany was wiped from the map.
It is probably why no new culture has arisen from that place on the map
either.
