---
title: "Integral Thoughts"
date: "2020-04-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20235"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20235"
---

Integralism, sometimes called Catholic integralism or Christian
integralism, is the revival of one of the oldest concepts in
Christianity. The very simple definition of integralism is that worship
is essential to the common good, therefore political authority, in order
to maintain legitimacy, much recognize and promote the religion of the
people. Since this is primarily a Christian concept, at least in this
context, the religion must be Christianity or in the case of Catholic
societies, Catholicism.

At first blush this may sound like theocracy, but that is not the case.
Instead, it is both a critique of and reform of liberal democracy. In
the most general sense, liberal democracy is a set of rules that ensures
that the general will of the people is expressed through the state. In
theory, at least, liberal democracy is silent on the nature of the
social arrangements of the people, as long as those arrangements are
arrived upon through the mechanism of the ballot box and marketplace.

Integralism is first and foremost a critique of this definition of
liberal reality. They point out that in every liberal democracy, an
ideology evolves to limit the choices at the ballot box and in the
marketplace. Homosexual marriage is the most obvious example. The public
rejected it, so it was imposed. Often, the liberal-democratic ideology
limits or removes choices within the family. For example, parents are
forced to put their sons on mind-altering drugs in order to please the
public schools.

For the integralists, the first line of critique is observable reality.
Liberal democracy, whatever it claims in theory, results in degeneracy
and the destruction of the social capital of the people. A system that
is supposed to be devoid of morality is quickly consumed by a
destructive civic ideology. This defect, according to the modern
integralists, is the absence of morality. A system constrained by and
subordinate to a Christian moral code would not make war on the people.

The aim of the Catholic integralist is the integration of religious
authority and political power. This is not some fringe idea promoted by
people living off the grid. Leading integralists include
<a href="https://sancrucensis.wordpress.com/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Edmund Waldstein</a>,
<a href="https://politicalscience.nd.edu/people/patrick-j-deneen/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Patrick J. Deneen</a>, <a
href="https://udallas.edu/constantin/academics/programs/politics/faculty/pappin-gladden.php"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Gladden Pappin</a>, and
<a href="https://hls.harvard.edu/faculty/directory/10919/Vermeule"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Adrian Vermeule</a>. Notre
Dame’s main journal posted <a
href="https://churchlifejournal.nd.edu/articles/what-is-integralism-today/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a long essay</a> explaining
Catholic integralism a couple of years ago. This was written by the
aforementioned Edmund Waldstein, who is a Cistercian monk from Austria.

Catholic integralism has a traveling partner in the Protestant sphere
that is called Christian reconstructionism. This is a 20th century
movement, rooted in prior reform movements, which argues that modern
government should be ruled by divine law, including the judicial laws of
the Old Testament. The Christian Right in the United States, the home
school movement and various other social conservative movements sprung
from Christian reconstructionism in the last century.

The main criticism of integralism in all its forms is that not all
people are Christian in modern Western societies. Jews, for example,
would oppose any effort to integrate Christian ethics into secular law.
<a href="https://twitter.com/DarrenJBeattie/status/1245835227966013441"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Darren Beattie</a>, the
right-wing critic of multiculturalism, is very opposed to integralism,
calling Vermeule a dangerous joke. Nationalist Yorham Harzony opposes
any role of Catholicism in modern society. <a
href="https://quillette.com/2019/06/11/the-rise-of-the-illiberal-right/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Neocons</a>, of course, oppose
anything with the hint of decency.

From the Jewish perspective, this is not a small thing. A society
limited by Christian ethics, even broadly defined, is one that will
encourage the inclusion of Christians and the exclusion of
non-Christians. Mormons will support their fellow Mormons. Baptists will
support their fellow Baptists. Being of the faith will be a
qualification for access to power and authority. Jews understand all too
well the nature of tribal identity, so they must oppose any role of
religion in a society, other than Israel.

There are, of course, secular criticisms of integralism. Right-wing
Progressives like David French argue that it is just <a
href="https://frenchpress.thedispatch.com/p/against-christian-authoritarianism"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Christian authoritarianism</a>.
It is a curious claim from someone who favorably compares himself to
Christ. Civic nationalists and constitutional originalists <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/catholic-integralism-how-many-can-there-possibly-be/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">oppose the idea</a> of
introducing morality into the law. They make rather <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2020/04/common-good-constitutionalism-is-no-alternative-to-originalism/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">curious claims</a> about the
nature of modern society, like we are governed by the written law, in
order to defend the current kritarchy.

All of these criticisms of integralism miss the mark, because they
refuse to acknowledge the reality of liberal democracy. America is now
an ideological state, closer to a theocracy, rather than the liberal
ideal. The debate is not about whether the state and its agents, private
and public, will impose a moral order on the people. The question is the
source of that morality and how will it be imposed. To pretend otherwise
is to live in the realm of fantasy. Morality is part of what defines
every society.

The integralists, however, come up short and for a similar reason. One
big elephant in the room is the
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19518"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">open society</a>. You cannot,
in fact, have an open society, as it is quickly overrun. The integralist
insist that you can maintain the open society, just as long as it is
governed by divine law. This is not a lot different from what civic
nationalists argue with regards to immigration. If every newcomer agrees
on the rules, then why not let everyone move to wherever they think is
best for them?

America has a long experience with this reality, as the country has been
multiracial and multicultural from the start. Blacks in America are
every bit as Christian, more so, in fact, as whites, but the races
continue to live culturally separate. The typical black neighborhood is
nothing like the typical white neighborhood. Black culture remains
stubbornly immune to modernity. The truth is, God may love us equally,
but he gave us different continents as homelands for a reason.

The same critique of liberal democracy can be made of integralism, in
that both have the same plank in their eye. That is biology. The
Christianity of one people differs from that of another people because
the people are different. They have a different past, a different set of
ancestors and different sense of who they are as a people. The same is
true of the people’s sense of civic duty and their relationship to their
society. New England remains alien to Appalachia because of biology.

That said, given the choice between integralism and civic nationalism,
biological reality will come down on the side of the former. If one
accepts that the divine law of one people will differ from that of
another, integralism is an excellent critique of liberal democracy. It
offers a moral argument in response to the ideological claims of the
current ruling elite. More important, those moral arguments are rooted
in something with genuine moral authority, rather than the general will.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
