---
title: "Systemic Collapse"
date: "2020-06-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20747"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20747"
---

**Note:** I will be on with Joseph Cotto and Paul Gottfried this evening
to discuss big-brained stuff. The show is scheduled for 7:00 PM. This is
a <a
href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-Pa5w_YWKYQPq-9Haak9gg/videos"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">link</a> to their YouTube
page, but I’ll add a direct link when it is available. One topic will be
my post about America and Athens, but there will be other topics as
well.

One thing that seems to be true of all civilizations that are in crisis
is they have a period in which the laws are no longer respected by the
people in power. It is not exactly a period of lawlessness, as in chaos.
That certainly does happen when the crisis reaches the point when the
official authority can no longer project power. Before that, there is a
time when the people charged with enforcing the laws simply stop doing
it on a consistent basis. The law becomes arbitrary and selective.

A good example of this is what we see with the civil unrest. Mobs of
people go into the streets looting and rioting, with very little
push-back from the police. The politicians carry on as if they are in
support of the rioting. It’s not as if these mobs are that large or all
that fearsome. The police, if given the chance, could end the riots in a
few hours with a minimum of trouble. The people pulling down statues
could be arrested, charged with lots of crimes and sent to a prison.
Yet, it does not happen.

Part of it, for sure, is that the local politicians are taking some
weird pleasure in seeing their cities destroyed. They would like to join
in on the mayhem. That is obvious with the child mayor of Minneapolis.
In other cases, the local politicians hate the police and refuse to let
them do their jobs. Still, in many cases, the local government is
paralyzed by fear and incompetence. In Atlanta, the police are in open
revolt against the local authorities over the corruption of the law by
the politicians.

Lost in all struggles to advance a preferred narratives is what is
happening on the ground in these cities. If you are a shop owner in
these areas or a resident, you now live in a lawless age. Again, it is
not entirely lawless, but the law is no longer clear and predictable for
you. If you, as a shop owner, shoot someone looting your store, maybe
you get arrested. Maybe the looter gets arrested, if things fall the
right way, but you can’t know. The law is no longer clear.

A more ominous example is what we see happening with the Silicon Valley
oligopolies now controlling the public square. Recently, Google <a
href="https://thehill.com/policy/technology/503013-google-banned-the-federalist-and-zerohedge-from-its-advertising-platform"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">threatened</a> to end the
advertising revenue of the Federalist and Zero Hedge. They did this at
the behest of NBC, who called them up and asked them to do it, because
NBC did not like that they allowed users to post comments on the
stories. Google does not like people expressing their opinions either,
so they happily agreed to threaten both sites.

There is a term for this. It is called extortion. Using the threat of
force or property damage to obtain something from another is illegal in
every state. What Google and NBC did to these sites is no different than
what the Mafia used to do with local business. NBC said, “that’s a nice
business you have there. Shame if something were to happen to it.” Then
Google came in and smashed a few things to make sure both of them knew
they were serious about it.

What’s even more amazing about this story is both NBC and Google have
publicly bragged about what they did. They don’t dispute that they
essentially muscled these two sites like gangsters. Their public
utterances are enough for the FBI to arrest the people involved and
charge them with multiple counts of extortion. They could probably even
begin a racketeering case against Google. There are laws on the books
for exactly this situation, yet the government is silent on the matter.

A less egregious example is what we see with the tech companies
de-platforming people accused of impiety. In a better time, one-way
contracts were strongly discouraged and highly scrutinized by the
courts. It was assumed there was an unequal relationship between the
company and their customer. The court tried to balance that relationship
by heavily scrutinizing the contracts involved and the actions of the
company issuing the contracts. The court defended the customer.

The reverse is now true. In every area of life, people are confronted by
terms of service that run contrary to our legal traditions. Domain
registrars, for example, willy-nilly <a
href="https://vdare.com/posts/breaking-network-solutions-driving-vdare-com-to-the-dark-web"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">break their contract</a> with
users like VDare. There is no remedy, as the courts simply no longer
enforce large swaths of contract law. In fact, as we see with the
Supreme Court, they invent new laws and re-imagine history to justify
it. The courts are now something less predictable than a flip of a coin.
It’s chaos in the law.

It is tempting to explain all of this as part of some highly
orchestrated plot by the usual suspects, but in reality, we are in a
period of lawlessness. The people charged with enforcing the rules
either refuse for factional reasons or they simply can no longer project
the power they theoretically possess. In the case of the courts, it very
well may be fear from people with real power. John Roberts, for example,
is most likely being extorted or intimidated by powerful people.

In response to legitimate power failing to act, illegitimate power is
starting to step into the void and enforce its own rules. We see this
with so-called private companies trying to impose the new religion on
people. The NCAA, for example, is trying to force the state of <a
href="https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/503646-ncaa-expands-ban-of-confederate-flag-specifically-notes-mississippi"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Mississippi to change its
flag</a>. Again, it is resorting to extortion and doing so without
regard for the law. A big part of what they are doing is displaying
their power level by brazenly threatening the duly elected government.

What we are witnessing is not a revolution. The Left would love for
people to believe that, which is why they have instructed conservative
media to sell that idea. Instead, we are seeing the breakdown of order.
Government, either because of corruption or ineptitude, is no longer
able to enforce the laws. Private power centers, no longer respecting
the spirit of the laws or the legitimate power centers, are beginning to
fill this void, like gangs trying to impose order when the cops are
gone.

The public sees this only from the outsider point of view. The
legitimate power centers like state and local government, appear to be
functioning, but for some reason they are randomly failing in their
basic duties. Corporations and newly minted religious authorities are
suddenly able to push people around without consequence. To the average
citizen it does look like a revolution, and maybe that will come, but
for now it is the slow breakdown of order. The system is collapsing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
