---
title: "The Great Unknown"
date: "2020-04-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20169"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20169"
---

If we use President Trump’s address to the nation on March 11 as a start
date, the coronavirus panic is now three weeks old. That Thursday
morning, the airlines were overwhelmed with requests to cancel and
change flights. People ran out to buy a lifetime supply of toilet paper.
States began to clamp down on civil life with shut down orders and so
forth. In the fullness of time, that speech will be seen as the point we
moved from indifference to complete panic over the virus.

Now, the week following the initial panic was not a total lock down of
civil life, as only a few states had started down that road. It was the
following week when the great shutdown of the economy started in
earnest, so we are just about ready to wrap up the second week of
limited economic activity. Friday is when the government releases the
weekly unemployment claims. Last week the number was 3.3 million and
this week the number is expected to dwarf that figure.

As this goes to post, <a
href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-usa-layoffs/us-weekly-jobless-claims-seen-at-record-high-again-idUSKBN21K0FX"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the estimates</a> for the
number of new claims are between 3.5 million and 5.25 million. The
record for number of claims in one week was set last Thursday, so the
next report is expected to be the new record. To put that into
perspective, these are numbers four and five times higher than previous
highs. There is no precedent with tens of millions of people being
suddenly furloughed, as businesses are forced to close around the
country, because they are told to close by the state.

Right now, <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/a-state-by-state-guide-to-coronavirus-lockdowns-11584749351"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">31 US states</a> have some
form of lock down in place. Not all are the same and not everyone obeys
the edicts. There are plenty of people out and about, but major east
coast cities now look like ghost towns compared to normal times. Lots of
people are working from home, of course, but retail life has just about
come to a halt, which means wholesale life is also slowing to a trickle.
No one knows how long this will go on, but conventional wisdom currently
says another month.

What this all means for the economy is completely unknown. The St. Louis
Federal Reserve is out with <a
href="https://www.stlouisfed.org/on-the-economy/2020/march/back-envelope-estimates-next-quarters-unemployment-rate"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a report</a> claiming 47
million people will be out of work at the peak of the fallout from the
lock down. That equates to a 32% unemployment rate. We are in
unprecedented territory now. According to the report, “These are very
large numbers by historical standards, but this is a rather unique shock
that is unlike any other experienced by the U.S. economy in the last 100
years.”

Now, there is some hope that the depression will be V-shaped. That is,
the economy comes back on in May or June and all of a sudden all of
those furloughed people are hired back as business reopens. There will
certainly be some of that, as the businesses that have not run out of
cash will reopen, hoping to remain viable long enough to weather the
storm. Many will have gone under, having run out of cash. Even in a
V-shaped recession, it takes a while to fully recover.

The stock market is not always a useful guide for judging the economy,
but in this case it can give us some clues. Right now, the robots that
do 99% of the trading have factored in what they expect over the next
six months. They have also factored in what they expect from government
stimulus and bailouts. The Dow Jones has settled in around the 21,000
mark this week. The big sell-offs have subsided and investors are slowly
buying into what many think is the bottom of the market.

Still, it is all guessing at this stage. Some states are talking about
extending the lock-down into May or even June. China having a <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-04-02/chinese-county-back-under-lockdown-after-infection-re-emerges"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">second lock-down</a> is going
to be seen by the alarmist as a sign the lock-down must continue
forever. Given that we’re still at peak hysteria and have yet to hit
peak infections, it is not unreasonable to think this carries into May.
That means the lower end of that V-shaped recession gets much deeper and
the angle coming out of it becomes much more gradual.

The only thing we can be sure of at this point is whatever lies on the
other side of this is going to be very different from just a month ago.
Politics, for example, are already changing, as the players respond to
the new reality. Trump is turning into the wartime president, which is
always good for the president’s numbers. He will no doubt become the
great cheerleader of the recovery this summer, as he will want to take
credit for the recovery from the lock-down, assuming there is one.

The question though is what will politics look like in a world of 30%
unemployment, even if it is short-lived? If half the furloughed workers
come back by June, that still means a world of unemployment levels not
seen in generations. The last time we had double digit unemployment was
1982. You have to go all the way back to the Great Depression before
seeing double digit unemployment again. Even allowing for the way these
numbers are calculated, no one alive has seen what’s coming.

Lots of people will rush forward at this point arguing that these
unprecedented times will suddenly make their preferred world view
popular. The libertarians are smugly sure that this time, people will
lose faith in government and join the libertarian revolution.
<a href="https://thebulwark.com/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">The neocons</a> are sure their treachery will be
vindicated. On this side of the great divide, there are lots of cheers
for the death of the economy, in the belief that putting millions of
white people out of work will radicalize them.

That’s the thing though. This is uncharted territory. America is not
Weimar Germany or 18th century France or 19th century Russia. We have no
examples of a country turning itself off like this. We don’t really know
why our rulers are doing this. The claim is the virus threat, but we
have had worse virus threats and the ruling class did not go insane like
this, so something is different this time. All we can say for sure is we
moved from a world we generally knew and understood into a world of the
unknown.

How will a people used to excess respond to a world of want? It is
entirely possible that we get lots of real poor people again. That is,
people with barely enough to feed themselves and a place to sleep. More
important, those poor people will be visible to the middle-class again.
How will people respond to that? How will people look at the plutocrats
in a world with real poverty in plain sight? How will those plutocrats
respond to such a world? No one has thought about it, so no one knows.

That means the politics of the future are probably not going to look
like anything we have imagined. The old Left-Right axis makes no sense.
The Left-libertarian versus Right-libertarian dynamic is now as relevant
as <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whiggism"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Whiggism</a>. If it is a short
depression, then politics will revolve around the new state controls
that are credited with “saving the economy” from the virus. If it is a
long depression, then politics becomes a zero-sum game to see who fills
the void of the discredited old politics.

Perhaps we are the first people to look out into the distance and get a
glimpse of what comes after post-scarcity society. Maybe it is just a
return to scarcity. Maybe it is a world with a high tech palace economy
and fewer and fewer people working. Maybe the white nationalist get
their wish and everyone becomes a dependent of the state. Maybe this
look into the void frightens us and we scurry back to the safety of the
past. For now though, we are staring out into the great unknown.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
