---
title: "A Pause On The River"
date: "2020-02-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19888"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19888"
---

When you are hurtling down a fast-moving river in a kayak, the one thing
you don’t do is take in the scenery or contemplate the changing nature
of the river. Your focus is on navigating the river, in order to avoid
getting splattered on a rock. Something similar happens to people in
rapidly changing times. Current events are that fast-moving river, while
politics are the rucks creating the rapids. Those engaged in it are
living in the never ending present, taking on each obstacle as they
come.

Unlike the kayaker, people in the fast-moving currents of a rapidly
changing society can stop and think about just how far down the river
they have traveled. In fact, it is probably the only way to keep your
head above water. It’s also useful in preparing for what is coming, as
in the moment, just like the kayaker flying through the rapids, it is
hard to understand what is driving events. The reason things today are
as they are is people made specific decisions in the past that led to
this point.

One of those things that is very different now, compared to further back
in the journey, is how the Right thinks about the media. In this
discussion, the Right are dissidents, not the flaks and hustlers hired
by corporate interests. Not so long, the Left saw the media as mostly
fair, while conservatives saw the media as biased. The complaint was the
typical media person was honest, but on the Left. Today, dissidents see
the media as wholly corrupt, even what passes for right-wing media.

Added to that is if you go back far enough, say the 1980’s, the Left
used to complain about corporate media. The Michael Moore types would
warn that corporations gobbling up local newspapers and radio stations
would destroy the media. The Right mostly dismissed these concerns.
After all, capitalism is always good. It turns out that those left-wing
cranks were right. Astoundingly, to those of a certain age, modern
dissidents sound a lot like those left-wing cranks from back then.

In the 1980’s and into the 1990’s, to be on the Left meant opposing the
corporatization of America. This was mostly a carryover from the
economic radicals of the prior generation, but honest liberals worried
about the power of global capital. They argued against liberalization of
banking and the creation of massive financial institutions that were
impossible to regulate. To be on the Right back then was to dismiss
these concerns as vestiges of a bygone era.

Today, dissidents are the harshest critics of corporate capital and
globalization, often sounding more like Bolsheviks than right-wingers.
It’s why older dissidents, like Jared Taylor, are a bit alarmed by what
they hear from the younger generation of dissidents regarding economics.
They hear these critiques of modern capitalism and hear the ugly echoes
of Michael Moore and Noam Chomsky. Of course, those younger dissidents
formed their views far downstream from the prior generation.

Listen to dissidents talk about the culture, if you are of a certain age
or older, and you hear the faint echoes of the hippies and beatniks of
yesteryear. It was the counter-culture types that first criticized mass
culture for its dehumanizing effects. They were the ones to first
suggest dropping out to avoid being rubbed out. Today, it is dissidents
dropping out of mass culture. Cord cutting and “not consuming product”
are the modern version of “Turn on, tune in, drop out.”

This inversion of cultural reality is hard to appreciate, especially if
you are a young person, as like the kayaker, the demands of the present
don’t leave much time to contemplate the past. Even so, it is an
important change in the culture of the country that should inform
dissident politics. Maybe if more right-wingers had listened to the
critics of corporate power a generation ago, we would not be dealing
with the reality of a Jewish oligarch buying the White House in 2020.

It is also a good reminder that reactionaries always lose. The Right a
generation ago, whatever its original aims, was transformed into a
dancing partner of the Left and not the lead partner. The result was a
Right that defended that which should not have been defended and blind
to that which was the true threat to the nation. Conservatism in the
1980’s became nothing more than reaction to the excesses of left-wing
people, rather than a response to left-wing politics.

There’s also the fact that the people manipulating events are not stupid
and should never be dismissed as such. The anti-white raging we see
today started a long time ago with the push for tolerance. The people
pushing it knew what they were doing. When they told us to celebrate
diversity, they never meant it. They always meant diversity to mean no
white people. They just knew they could not say that, so they used the
weight of the right-wing reactionaries against them instead.

That’s a lesson the modern dissident should try to learn from the
failure of Buckley conservatism, as well as the failure of the old Left.
Those people criticizing mass culture were right, but they did not win
the argument. They had bad optics. The people worried about the growth
of corporate power lost because they did not appreciate the power of
material comfort. Simply opposing people you don’t like, almost always
leads to succumbing to events you like even less.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
