---
title: "A Night At The Circus"
date: "2020-02-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19893"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19893"
---

The maniacal Mike Bloomberg took the stage for the Democratic debate
last night and to his credit, he made the thing interesting to watch. Up
until now, these shows have been quite dull. They had the feel of a
faculty meeting at a third-tier private college, where everyone pretends
the issues at hand are important, but in reality, they are just going
through the motions. The introduction of Bloomberg added a genuine sense
of urgency to the thing, which made it entertaining.

That sense of urgency mostly served to exaggerate all of the characters
on stage, as they let their hair down in an effort to steal the
limelight from Bloomberg. Lizzy Warren was the
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xEt5dEOcW0I"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">school principle</a> from
Uncle Buck, desperately trying to make sure no one had any fun and
treated everything with utmost seriousness. She also seemed to vibrate,
as if she was receiving a mild jolt of electricity. If she had put a
light bulb in her mouth, while the others were talking, it would have
made perfect sense.

Similarly, Klobuchar reminded everyone why giving women the vote was a
bad idea, as she ticked every box for the matronly politician. At
various points she was offended, over eager, cloying and schoolmarmish.
She probably had the best night of the bunch, until she got into a purse
fight with Buttigieg. He mocked her for not knowing the name of the
Mexican president. She responded by demanding if he was calling her
dumb, which made the point in an amusing way.

The prize for most ridiculous character on the stage goes to Pete
Buttigieg, who looked like a child playing dress-up. Not exactly a
child, more like a robot child. That’s because he is the quintessential
millennial, who prepares for everything like a test. He probably even
practices how he turns to address the other people on stage. When he
lectured Klobuchar about not knowing the name of the Mexican president,
you just knew that in real life he is a bitchy pedantic nuisance.

Strangely, Joe Biden probably had his best night, but it is a good
reminder that you get one chance to make a first impression. Even though
he was coherent and lucid for the entire night, you notice that because
it is rare. He is at that stage of life where his mind prefers to be in
neutral and it takes effort to get the thing in gear. Once he gets it in
gear, he is fine, but you never can be certain he will stay that way.
You can’t help feeling a bit sad for him, as he staggers through the
final days.

What made the show, of course, was Mike Bloomberg. He spent most of the
night looking mildly irritated by the whole thing. It was as if he had
used a crazy act in court to avoid being sent to prison, but was instead
sent to the asylum. He knew he had to keep up the act, but desperately
wanted to start shouting that he was not insane like the people around
him. The only thing missing was a
<a href="https://youtu.be/c3Dz6FOE_Gk" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">big Indian</a> to throw a sink through one of the
windows to close the show.

Bloomberg is the Democrat version of Ross Perot. He’s not really a
candidate, but more of a foil for the other candidates. Last night all
of them went ham on him in an effort to show they are the most virtuous
of the bunch. Warren went full rage head over Bloomberg having called
women “fat broads and horse-faced lesbians.” For the rest, Bloomberg was
the cartoon rich guy. They took turns flinging their poo at him. For the
most part, he just smirked it off, dismissing them as sideshow clowns.

That’s where we get to the Ross Perot comparison. In 1992, Perot ran as
a rich guy with a common touch, trying to save the system. He hated the
Bush family and he wanted to see George Bush lose. His folksy and
erratic [performance](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qHcgvEsNAQc) in
the debates probably put Clinton in the White House. That seems to be
the role Bloomberg is hoping to play for the Democrats. His mission is
to keep Sanders from winning the nomination outright, so the party can
figure out some way to stop him.

Bloomberg also lifts the veil on something we don’t get to see. For our
Jewish ruling class, Bernie is the embarrassing uncle, who never
amounted to much. He is a reminder of a past they would like to forget.
The Jewish Bolshevik is a stereotype that has largely faded from our
consciousness, because Jewish billionaires like Bloomberg have worked
hard to erase it from the scenery. Jews are no longer subversive
irritants like Bernie, but benevolent oligarchs like Bloomberg.

Putting that aside, Bloomberg did not score any hits on the other
candidates, but they managed to dirty him up pretty good. Last night was
a good example of why normal people tend to do poorly in politics. He
was unprepared to play a convincing character in response to the other
characters on the stage. Instead, he allowed them to define him as their
favorite villain. He was the evil white man, the pervy misogynist, the
soulless greed-head and the callous oligarch.

That’s probably going to force Bloomberg to shift his strategy away from
attacking Trump with his billion-dollar ad campaign and instead attack
Sanders. Most likely, Sanders wins Nevada and heads into South Carolina
with a chance to knock out the remaining candidates. Some may linger on,
but in two weeks the race will be Bloomberg and Sanders. In order to
avoid looking like a fool, Bloomberg will have to go scorched earth on
Bernie and his supporters.

All in all, it was a great show, maybe even the best debate ever. No,
none of the performers should be allowed loose in society, much less be
elected president, but it was a hilarious performance. When the robot
historians are sifting through the rubble of this age, they will
probably use footage of this debate as an example of just how terribly
wrong things went in late empire America. “And just like that, everyone
went insane” will be how they describe this age.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
