---
title: "The Sunset Of Trump"
date: "2020-06-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20742"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20742"
---

President Trump kicked off his re-election campaign with a rally in
Tulsa Oklahoma on Saturday night. The most remarked feature of the event
was the tiny crowd that bothered to show up. Even the [Breitbart
zombies](https://www.breitbart.com/2020-election/2020/06/20/live-updates-trump-in-tulsa-oklahoma-great-american-comeback-rallies-begin/)
could not help but notice that the arena was about a third of capacity.
The other remarkable feature is that Trump pretty much used recycled
material from the past, rather use the event to reframe his flailing
election campaign. It was very low energy.

In fairness, the run-up to the event was marred by the mayor declaring a
state of emergency, along with warnings that mobs of Antifa would be
there to beat people trying to enter the arena. Even the dumbest white
people are starting to realize that the police are there to protect the
Left and their masters, so going to an event like this means running a
gauntlet of protesters, while the cops cheer it on. Trump can forget
about holding rallies this summer. The Left will not permit it.

Still, there is a marked lack of enthusiasm for Trump. By the standards
of his rhetoric, his presidency has been a spectacular failure. His two
great achievements are throwing open the prisons so violent blacks can
prey on his voters and massive give-sways to the super-rich and global
pirates. If you voted for Trump because of immigration, you have gotten
less than nothing from him. Immigration has increased, work visas have
increased and he bungled DACA into a permanent program.

The worst aspect of Trump and the one that will probably cost him the
election is he keeps endorsing the morality of his opponents. In one
breath he tells his voters he will fight the Left. In the next breath he
tells them the Left is standing on the moral high ground and he worships
at their feet. DACA is a perfect example. He could have rescinded it and
been done with it. Instead he spent years telling us he cared more about
these invaders than the Democrats. The court believed him.

If Trump was actually fighting for his issues, his lack of
accomplishment could be turned into an asset. People can respect a guy
who keeps fighting against a system that is as thoroughly corrupt as
Washington. That’s not the case here. Trump endorsed Mitt Romney for
Senate, hired John Bolton, opposes Jeff Sessions. He has spent his
entire time in office singing the praises of blacks, Hispanics and
migrants, while never mentioning white people, the people who voted for
him.

At this point, a reasonable person has to wonder if Trump was not a
Manchurian candidate all along. If in 2016 you were hoping to derail
white populism one more time as you slammed the prison doors shut, what
would you do different? Millions of white man hours were invested in
Trump that could have gone to building a second party or building a
legitimate alternative to the ruling class. Trump was actually a
delaying action all along, so the ruling class could finish their work.

Now, a lot will happen in the next four and half months, so it is
foolish to write-off Trump completely at this point. He is running
against a dementia patient. Lost in all the tumult of late is the fact
that Biden has declined even further since we last saw him. By the fall
the choice could very well be a terrible disappointment or a man unsure
of where he is at the moment. That and the background could be blacks
looting and burning white neighborhoods in the suburbs while the cops
laugh about it.

Trump can also help his cause by firing the Hillary Clinton supporter he
has running his campaign at the moment. That’s right. His campaign
manager, Brad Parscale, did not vote for him in 2016. He could also
sideline the Chabad agent assigned to him. That would be Jared Kushner,
the genius mind behind throwing open the prison doors so BLM can riot in
the streets. Kushner really does resemble a lizard person, so maybe Alex
Jones is right about that one.

A campaign centered on reviving the economy and restoring law and order
would at least have some coherence. He could then run against both
parties as responsible for the mayhem we are seeing. It would be cynical
and dishonest, but it would probably work to re-energize his campaign.
It would also force Biden to defend the establishment and the current
mayhem. Forcing Dementia Joe to speak in public should be Trump’s number
one priority throughout the summer.

Whether or not Trump does anything to save himself is an open question
at this point, as he looks like a beaten man. His rally in Tulsa was a
dud and it was clear he knew it as soon as he waddled on the stage. He
was once again setup to fail by people around him, people who worked
hard to prevent him from winning in 2016. At this stage, it would be
remarkable if Trump realized he has to stop trusting his enemies and
doubting his friends. It’s possible, but the window is closing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
