---
title: "Modeling Failure"
date: "2020-03-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20060"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20060"
---

A suddenly popular hobby for the statistically minded is the modeling of
the coronavirus pandemic that threatens to sweep the West. The
statistician to the stars, William M. Briggs, has been modeling things
like
<a href="https://wmbriggs.com/post/29734/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">the utility of testing</a>. Steve Sailer has been
promoting a person blogging under the name “Arguably Wrong”, who has
been modeling the cost of <a
href="https://www.unz.com/isteve/arguably-wrong-models-costs-of-different-strategies/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">different containment
strategies</a>. Of course, the CDC is taking this opportunity to whip up
a panic with <a
href="https://dnyuz.com/2020/03/13/the-worst-case-estimate-for-u-s-coronavirus-deaths/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">their models</a>.

The right word is panic, as we have hoarding of useless supplies like
toilet tissue and bottled water. Starting this weekend, tens of millions
of America will be sheltering in place and self-isolating over fears of
the plague. Schools are closing and will remain closed for six weeks.
Entertainment like sporting events and public gatherings has been
canceled indefinitely. America is about to go into an unprecedented shut
down of the economy and civic life based on what *could* happen.

That is a very important variable. The numbers thus far are trivial, in
terms of infections and deaths from this virus. Italy has the highest
per capita infection rate. That infection rate for Italy in the chart
below means there are currently twice as many dwarfs in Italy as there
are virus victims. In the United States, almost as many people have been
struck by lightning this year as have contracted the virus. More people
have committed suicide this year in China than have died from this
virus.

[<img
src="http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Capture.png"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-20062" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 579px) 100vw, 579px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Capture.png 579w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Capture-300x169.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Capture-500x282.png 500w"
width="579" height="327" />](http://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/Capture.png)

Now, the experts all say these numbers will explode in the near term.
Just as the flu or the common cold starts small, person to person
contact causes the infected population to grow quickly. Currently, the
claim is the infected population will double every five days, with no
end in sight. Italy, for example, could have 200,000 cases by the end of
the month, if that prediction is correct. By May a little under one
third of the population would have the virus and by June everyone is
infected.

This is, of course, exactly what did not happen in China. In fact, we
have no reason to think this will happen at all. We have examples of
prior infections, some very serious like the Spanish Flu. We even have a
good sense of the infection rate from the Black Death in the middle
ages. As far as we know, there has never been a virus with an infection
rate like what is being predicted. Maybe this is different. Maybe modern
urban life makes us unusually susceptible to a pandemic. Maybe.

Further, we don’t know as much about pandemics as the army of experts in
the media would have us believe. Most of the model makers are assuming
the experts on this stuff have their facts right, but there is no
evidence to support that claim. For example, the Spanish Flu remains a
mystery. We know the strain of H1N1 and we have some sense of where it
started, but we have no idea why it ended. We know it ended long before
it reached the infection rates predicted for this virus.

In the fall of 1918, 4,597 people died in Philadelphia in the week
ending October 16th from the Spanish Flu. By November, deaths dropped to
zero and by mid-month the flu had disappeared from the city. No one
knows why. Maybe it mutated into something very mild. Maybe it simply
ran out of victims. Maybe limiting social contact finally stopped the
spread. No one knows. That’s an important thing to keep in mind about
these predictive models. They as yet cannot predict the past.

This is something that must be plugged into any model for this virus and
models for predicting potential outcomes. The models being used will all
be wrong and wrong in ways no one can predict. For example, what if
there really is an ethnic component to these infection rates. The part
of Italy being hit with the virus has a lot of Han Chinese for all the
reasons we have non-Europeans in the West. The city of Prato Italy,
population 200,000, has been
<a href="https://www.ecnmy.org/engage/prato-chinese-stuff-look-around/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">overrun by Han Chinese</a>.

Could there be an ethnic element here that would explain the numbers in
China, Italy, Iran and the reaction by Israel? <a
href="https://vdare.com/articles/chinese-scientists-find-more-evidence-that-coronavirus-a-k-a-covid-19-discriminates-by-race"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The Chinese</a> seem to think
they are particularly vulnerable to this virus. They have been <a
href="https://vdare.com/articles/chinese-scientists-find-more-evidence-that-coronavirus-a-k-a-covid-19-discriminates-by-race"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">studying</a> coronavirus for
some time, because they have suffered more than any country from it. <a
href="https://vdare.com/articles/coronavirus-and-vitamin-c-is-this-why-israel-closed-its-borders"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Lance Welton</a> at VDare has
been cataloging the studies on this topic. The media experts dismiss
this stuff, but that’s mostly because of the fear of being called
racist, which is worse than death.

The point is the models that are driving the great shutdown of the West
are based on assumptions that are most likely wrong. That means the
models themselves will turn out to be wrong. Modeling the wrongness may
turn out to be the most important project over the next several months.
Right now, the public is grudgingly giving public officials the benefit
of the doubt. The people have little trust in them, so when things are
not as predicted, those public officials better have answers ready.

For example, what happens if we learn that the outbreak in Italy is
centered in their large Chinese community? That’s going to have an
effect on public policy, because it will have an effect on public
attitudes. Even if lots of actual Italians gets sick, people are going
to wonder why this fact was not made clear straight away. They may also
wonder why there is a Chinese community in Italy. A whole range of prior
assumptions are going to come under new scrutiny with new information.

How about something simple like the great spread of the virus does not
materialize over the next few weeks? Public officials will no doubt
claim that the lock down was a success, but that’s like claiming the
reason there are no giraffes in your garden is due to installing a
garden gnome. Very few people are going to buy it and the more so-called
experts push it, the more the people will reject it. The already low
faith in public officials will fall even further. There will need a
better answer.

It may not even take a few weeks for the public to grow both weary and
skeptical of the state of emergency. A very large chunk of society
thinks this is a hoax. Young people are calling it the “Boomer Remover”
while taking advantage of cheap airfares. Short of more data to fuel the
panic, the public could get tired of this by next week. This approach to
the virus can only work with public cooperation, so public officials
should assume great public resistance within the next week.

There’s also the idiot factor. The fact is, America has rounded up most
of its imbeciles and put them on government payrolls. Under normal
conditions, they do a limited about of harm this way. Under these
conditions, they can do a lot of damage. Red Flag laws have already
embolden imbeciles on the local police forces to <a
href="https://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/lawyer-man-asleep-police-fired-house-killing-69587748"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">randomly open fire</a> on
people in their homes. The staggering incompetence of public safety
units must be part of any model predicting what comes next with the lock
down.

That’s the thing about a public emergency. Societies are systems with
lots of hard to define inputs and sub-processes. The outbreak is one
input that has set off a range of other inputs, which in turn has
altered the behavior of many sub-systems. These sub-systems interact
with one another, so the system we see, what we call daily life, is
changing in unpredictable ways. All of these linear models violate the
basic rule of models in that they assume things about the world that are
false.

Life in human societies does not happen sequentially. Instead it is
millions of lives operating in both parallel and in series. It’s very
complicated. We see that with how public officials in America have
reacted to the virus. When it was a Chinese problem, public official
ignored it. When it became an Italian problem, suddenly it resonated
with Americans, because we are familiar with Italians. It turns out that
the input value of one dead Italian is exponentially more important than
one Asian.

Over the next few weeks, public officials better be ready for being
wrong about all the things they have been saying. Trump’s first
instinct, like most Americans, was to dismiss the alarmists. The reason
is they have cried wolf so often, only a fool would believe the
alarmists at this point. If this turns out to be a big to-do about
nothing, we suddenly live in a world where 300 million people feel like
they were taken for a ride. There will be a price to be paid for being
that wrong about something this big.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
