---
title: "The Outsiders"
date: "2020-03-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19967"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19967"
---

For the longest time, the official definition of politics in America,
was liberalism on one side and conservatism on the other. The one side
viewed the state as the primary tool to perpetuate change, by
obliterating organic institutions and habits, replacing them with the
latest social fads. The other side opposed the state, seeing it as a
rival to corporate interests, which sought to obliterate organic
institutions and habits. Both sides opposed majoritiarian interests as
immoral on their face.

They did not sell it that way, of course, but that was the how politics
in America were framed since the mid-20th century. To be a liberal was
to support the state in whatever it was trying to propose, without
thinking too much about the goal. State power was the goal of politics.
Similarly, the conservative championed the individual, which
conveniently included corporations and their shared power. If it was
good for business, it was good for individuals, no matter the results.

This is, of course, two wolves and a lamb arguing over what’s for
dinner. American society became something like a Japanese monster movie.
One monster represented the Left and the other the Right. It was Mothra
versus Godzilla. The people played bit parts, thinking they were helping
one side or the other, but in reality they were just a nuisance to the
monsters. For their part, the monsters did not care that they were
destroying the city while they were fighting.

To continue the analogy just a bit further, the two monsters now find
themselves in a quandary, as the people are now joining up to attack
both of them. On the Right, a nascent white populism is emerging to
challenge the corporate spokesman that still laughably call themselves
conservatives. On the Left, a nostalgic form of popular socialism is
emerging to challenge the Progressive establishment. The people have had
enough of the monsters wrecking their communities.

As an aside, anyone familiar with their history understands that the
what Bernie is selling is a form of fascism. His embrace of communism
was always a pose, a way to set himself apart on the Left. In reality he
wants the state to hold the whip hand and direct capitalism on behalf of
the people. His program is corporatism, not socialism or communism.
You’ll note that Sanders does not directly attack corporations or
corporate power, instead preferring to attack “millionaires and
billionaires.”

Of course, the underlying reality of American politics is that both
sides were just the two faces the power elite wanted to show the public.
Left and Right represented the same narrow interests that see themselves
as a visitors, like a colonizing army of space aliens, sent to earth to
extract resources. They divided the natives by convincing some to
support one of their tentacles, the state, while convincing others to
support another tentacle, corporate power, which they also controlled.

The pitchmen hired to defend and promote this arrangement now find
themselves in a quandary, as their audience is no longer buying the old
lines. They are left to argue that the people have no natural interests.
In fact, for the people to think they have collective interest is
un-American and immoral. That is the gist of this
<a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/27/opinion/bernie-sanders.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">David Brooks</a> column about
Bernie Sanders. The exact same vibe comes from his shadow,
<a href="https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/majoritarian-domination/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Kevin Williamson</a>. Both
agree that the people have no proper role in politics.

The thing that gives the game away in this call and echo session between
Brooks and Williamson is this line that Williamson highlighted, “This is
how populists of left and right are ruling all over the world, and it is
exactly what our founders feared most and tried hard to prevent.” The
Founders were certainly against mob rule, but they were just as opposed
to <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minoritarianism"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">minorityism</a>, as well. In
fact, they risked their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor to
oppose it.

As an another aside, the amusing bit of this is how Williamson remains
the striving flunky, desperate to carry water for his betters. You would
think his ejection from the Atlantic after one week would have opened
his eyes a bit. Instead, he continues to toady up to people, who think
he should use the servant’s entrance. His is the mentality of the house
slave, convinced he is morally superior to the field hands, simply
because the master treats him as well as he treats his favorite dog.

For his part, Brooks is shedding his skin and revealing his nature. He
once passed himself off as a gentry conservative, the sort who opposed
the Left on aesthetic grounds, rather than ideological ones. That was
the gag he used to oppose Trump, along with the rest of the Saturday-off
crowd. Now, he opposes Sanders, because he sees him as a threat to the
system. Sanders legitimizes populism, which can only end one way for the
outsider class currently in charge.

Not to put too fine a point on it, but the outsider aesthetic is an
important part of how the old framework was maintained. Brooks is not a
conservative or a liberal in the way in which most Americans would think
of it. He does not operate on the same scale, because he is does not see
himself as an American. He is a Zionist, who places the interest of his
people ahead of all else. His son served in the IDF, rather than the
American military, something he surely learned at home.

This outsider aesthetic is an important part of the ruling class
outlook. These people see themselves as apart from the rest of us. That
separation from the grubby Dirt People is an important part of what
defines a Cloud Person. Ridiculous toadies like Kevin Williamson lack
the ability to pull it off, so they ape it with libertarianism and a
smug, misplaced sense of superiority. It is a reactionary elitism that
has no basis in merit, because it is the product of deception.

Reality is that thing that never goes away when you stop believing in
it. The reality of human existence is that a society’s ruling class has
one primary duty. That is, it must always protect the interests of their
people. For a long time, this ruling elite was able to baffle the people
with that old framing of politics. Like a Ponzi scheme that runs out of
suckers, the current order is running out of people willing to sacrifice
their interests so that Kevin Williamson can fetch the slippers of David
Brooks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
