---
title: "College Football"
date: "2020-09-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21174"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21174"
---

College football officially begins tonight with a few games between
minor programs and then this weekend with some more well-known programs.
Even though the solstice is not for a few more weeks, the accepted end
of summer and beginning of fall in the US is Labor Day weekend. Most
years, this weekend is loaded with college football games starting on
Thursday and running through Monday night. Due to the man-made panic
over Covid, there are far fewer games than normal.

College football is one of those uniquely American things. In the rest
of the world, sports are a solely professional thing. Teens with the
talent to make a living playing ball end up in a professional league of
some sort. The youth play in club leagues until they can no longer play
or can sign a professional contract. In America, the only sports that
work this way are tennis and golf. The other sports, even soccer, are
attached to colleges in some way, until players reach adulthood.

In the case of football, the sport is made weirder by the fact that
every school and region have traditions. Europeans are baffled by the
bands and cheerleaders used by college football programs. That’s not a
thing you would ever see in Europe. There’s also the massive expense
that comes with it. American colleges have sporting facilities that
dwarf most professional clubs in the rest of the world. College football
alone generates two billion in advertising revenue every year.

Of course, what makes it really weird compared to the rest of the world
is the players do not get paid in the traditional sense. They are paid,
of course. Anyone who says otherwise is a liar or ignorant. They get
free tuition, books, access to world class trainers and facilities and
walking around money. Big time programs give the players a hundred
dollars a day for incidentals. They also try hard to cover up their
crimes, which is no small thing at many of these programs.

The scale of the industry is why many colleges have decided to go ahead
with playing this season, rather than continue the Covid farce. It’s one
thing to send the students home to take their classes on-line. It is
quite another to give up billions in revenue in order to pretend you’re
heroically fighting the killer virus. The two leagues that cancelled
their season are now trying to figure out how to reverse course. It
turns out that posturing is not as lucrative as playing the games.

Of course, this being the summer of public piety, the colleges feel the
need to bend the knee to their black players in public. Nick Saban, one
of the most cynical and craven humans to ever walk the earth, put on [a
big show](https://twitter.com/SimoneEli_TV/status/1300540336805216259)
the other day. His football teams have been crime waves in every city he
has worked, but he wants his black players to know he is all about
social justice. The issue of cops shooting blacks resonates with his
players, because they get arrested so often.

The most amusing bit of moral preening so far came out of the cuck-belt,
where the Kansas State football team had shirts made up and brought in
celebrity blacks to help the whites with their struggle sessions. One of
the players said, “I challenge you to not avoid conversations with
people who think differently than you.” These are the same players who
demanded [a
student](https://twitter.com/JadenPMcNeil/status/1300563469213859844) be
expelled for not agreeing with them on the George Floyd overdose
incident.

The coaches, of course, are indulging this nonsense because they get
paid to indulge all sorts of shenanigans. Nick Saban makes six million
per season to keep his players out of prison long enough to finish the
season. From his perspective, mouthing idiotic slogans and letting his
players lecture the world about social justice is a day at the beach
compared to what he normally does. In the world of carny folk, dignity
takes a back seat to fleecing the suckers in the crowd.

Still, you can’t help but wonder if the colleges are destroying
themselves with this lurch into politics. College football is entirely
funded by white people. The stands at a college football game are whiter
than an Ivy League professor’s neighborhood. The schools themselves may
actively discriminate against white students, but the white fans make it
possible for these college football programs to exist. Those fans also
tend to be very patriotic, conservative and civic minded.

Of course, sports are supposed to be an escape. Staging mock battles
between groups of Africans is a way to forget about the world for a few
hours. In the case of college football, it also includes reminiscing
about your college days and maybe hanging out with old college buddies.
Reminding these people that you hate them and want them dead is probably
a bad marketing strategy by these colleges. So far it has been a
disaster for the pro leagues. Their viewership has collapsed.

Paradoxically, the collapse in television viewership may save these
sports from their black players. If the stands were full, the fans could
boo when the players take a knee or make some idiotic gesture. There
would be social proof that normal white people resent this stuff. That
would also lead the players to speak out and accidentally reveal just
how much they hate white people. Playing in front of cardboard cutouts
means no booing the teams for their anti-white antics.

This is another example of why sports remain popular. They tend to
reflect in simple ways truths about society as a whole. In this case,
the players can get away with their anti-white stuff, because there is
no one around them to say otherwise. That is how it always is with the
Left. There is no genuine market for their ideas, so they make sure to
either cripple the marketplace of ideas with censorship or simply impose
their way on everyone by controlling the institutions, like colleges.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
