---
title: "The New Corporatism"
date: "2020-12-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22071"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22071"
---

**Note:** I have <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/230224"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a post</a> up behind the green
door on the Mary sue that was allowed to play sportsball with the boys
last week.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the industrial age, the power centers in Western societies were
capital, the government and the workers in that order. Because money is
power, the capitalists could exert influence over governments, so they
were at the top of the power structure, but that had its limits.
Government has the monopoly of force and must be responsive to the
people, even in private government. Labor, of course, had numbers and
even in the most repressive regimes, numbers count for a lot.

Of course, there was natural conflict between labor and capital. Then as
now, capitalists wanted to exploit their workers as much as possible.
One solution to this was tripartism, which is economic corporatism.
Labor, government and employers work together to form economic policy.
Labor would be organized into unions, whose leaders would sit at the
table with representatives from the state and industry to fashion
polices that maintained social stability and economic prosperity.

For most of Europe, this has been the explicit arrangement. In
Scandinavia, what is often called socialism is actually corporatism.
Workers get generous benefits, but the state protects business from
competition. In other parts of Europe it is not as explicit, but the
social contract is based on the cooperation of the government, business
and labor unions. The irony is that this was the approach favored by
fascist movements, but no one dares mention that bit of history.

In America, this arrangement was never formalized. Industrial unions
flourished in the north, but never got traction in the rest of the
country. Into the 20th century, the central government was too weak to
bring labor and capital to the table. Instead we got an informal version
of tripartism, with activist groups inside the political system
negotiating on behalf of labor. The political class used regulation,
rather than force, to bring business owners to the table.

For the most part, this system worked well enough through the 20th
century. It was not perfect, nothing is, but all the measures of society
improved. Even as the West moved into post-industrial economies, the
system held up. That’s increasingly not the case, especially in America,
as we move fully into the technological age. That old informal
arrangement is falling apart and being replaced with a bipolar social
order, centered on money and information.

You see this with the Democratic Party. A generation ago, Democratic
politicians would court industrial labor unions and salt their platforms
with promises to the middle and working class. They were the party of
labor. Today, Democrat politicians would not be caught dead with a union
boss. Instead they hang out at Davos with bankers and global titans of
the information age. They salt their platforms with weird aspirational
messages that resonate with bourgeoise bohemians.

The new system is an informal arrangement between Silicon Valley, Wall
Street and the political class in Washington. Left out of this is not
only labor, but the bulk of business, which does not operate globally.
You see this with Covid. Exceptions were made for the giant
corporations, but not the small and midsized business forced to knuckle
under to draconian measures. A great transfer of power and money is
underway from the middle-class to the elites.

Just as capital was able to exert influence over the state in the old
industrial tripartite system, money and information is now able to push
around the political class. You see this with the tech monopolies. Many
in Washington know this is a serious problem, but they are powerless to
stop it. Not only can the tech giants buy the votes they need, they get
to read everyone’s e-mail and text messages. In the information age,
control of information is as important as controlling the money.

What America is racing into is bipartism, an informal alliance between
Silicon Valley and Wall Street, with Washington as junior partner.
Silicon Valley controls the flow of information, while Wall Street
controls the flow of money. When necessary, Washington supplies the
force. There is no role for labor or even for the public at-large. In a
world where elections are ceremonial, there is no need for Washington to
appeal to the voters or even pretend to do so.

The problem with this emerging social arrangement is that it is not
rooted in anything other than short-term greed. Corporatism of the
industrial age was rooted in Catholic social teaching, where the parties
had reciprocal duties. Human dignity and the common good were overriding
concerns. The three parts of the system were bound by reciprocal duties
to the other, but also bound by a duty to society. There was a clear
moral component, rooted in 2000 years of history.

The system that is emerging is explicitly free of any moral duty to
society, as it rejects the very notion of society. After all, society is
about boundaries and the open society is about no boundaries, which is a
contradiction in terms. The rhetoric is to disguise the fact that the
whole point of this new order is to consume social capital, converting
it into money and power for the two stake holders. Human dignity and the
common good have been monetized to benefit the new ruling order.

The main flaw in this is that a world without social capital is a world
without trust. This is why personal liberty is quickly shrinking.
Prisons are low trust societies and they are controlled by limiting the
choices available to inmates. The emerging social credit system and
“freedom passes” are what the new ruling class thinks will replace the
social capital they have devoured. Instead of a sense of community and
an obligation to society, people will be motivated by their smartphone.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="e+iVSKgULIseiP6+3TPpHg==cb7nKiUre0qwI3JWau25FR2vWyE7hFVjhS8bIsdo05WK9Nt7aU2CxyuTb8wqw2x4kVO"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="hhE1Sv7al0H0vCKbiTAGGw==cb7e8cUUQqSKrPjzMlofGqIyOgqj3TZt8xtV5AXWAuEvcCDdfVlTtOsC9ER7YDqg2FX"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
