---
title: "The Conspiracy Metric"
date: "2020-02-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19850"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19850"
---

A useful metric to measure the degree of corruption and degradation of a
ruling class would be to plot the distance between official truths and
actual truth. The greater the distance between official truth and
reality, the greater the degeneracy. North Korea, for example, makes
fantastical claims about the ruler, while Switzerland barely notices it
has a president. The former is a madhouse run by a cult of personality,
while the latter is the model of sober-minded, popular governance.

Another possible metric for measuring the health of a society would be
the number of popular conspiracy theories and the degree to which people
accept them. The Y-axis would be the number of popular conspiracy
theories floating around in general conversation, while the X-axis would
be the intensity of belief. The Turks have loads of conspiracy theories
and they really believe them. The Swiss, of course, have never been in
to such theories and are regarded as skeptical by nature.

There is an obvious argument against using such a metric, as it could
simply be a proxy for the general intelligence of the population. Stupid
people are more prone to believe fantastical explanations for events
than smart people. The QAnon stuff, for example, is a clever mocking of
the sorts of people inclined to believe such things. It’s a very clever
person with too much time on his hands having fun at the expense of
those who are not so clever. Dumb people tend to fall for conspiracy
theories.

The thing is, smart people tend to control public discourse in a
society, either through owning the means of public discussion or through
their influence. A healthy society would have a healthy smart fraction
that provides believable and reasonably accurate explanations, so that
conspiracy theories are unnecessary. For example, 1950’s America had its
tin foil hat crowd, but they were objects of mockery. They did not have
millions of paying customers to their
<a href="https://www.infowars.com/" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">internet video operation</a>.

The conspiracy metric would pick up two important factors. One is the
size and influence of the smart fraction and its willingness to shape
public debate. North Koreans probably have loads of wacky theories about
their society, because the smart North Koreans spend all of their time
lying to them about what’s happening. That and making sure they don’t
get on the wrong side of the tubby cult leader. North Korea has a smart
fraction, but it is exceedingly corrupt and paranoid.

That’s an important part of conspiracy theories. The reason they appeal
to stupid people is stupid people struggle to understand things. The
conspiracy theory allows them to have a simple answer for observable
phenomenon. This is an important part of the human animal. We evolved
for a very long time, paranoid about what was lurking in the bushes,
under the water and in the shadows. Recognizing patterns and creating
useful explanations for those patterns is our nature.

In the modern age, that need to fear the dark is still there, so it
expresses for many people as belief in harmless conspiracy theories
about UFO’s and secret government agencies that run things from the
shadows. Even smart people struggle to accept that serendipity and fate
are often the powerful forces behind events. People need to know why
things happen. If there is no rational explanation for why something
happened, then they will gladly accept an irrational one.

Of course, con-men often play on this reality to get people to believe
some nonsense that aids the con man in his schemes. Government is also
fond of using conspiracy theories to promote their interests. Getting
people to believe, for example, that a secret agency using special
software can read your e-mail in real-time has enormous benefits to the
security state. It causes the people they are tracking to act in ways
that are more easily monitored and more easily detected.

If you are a small group of people with an enormous amount of power,
people will eventually notice it. Trying to hide this fact is a waste of
resources, so the better course is to own and amplify this reality. If
you can turn your opponents into aluminum hat wearing nutters, that
directs attention away from the truth and onto the conspiracy theorists.
All of those theories about secret government programs and 4-D chess,
cloak and dagger operations serves the interests of the state.

That’s another reason the conspiracy metric would be useful. The more
corrupt the government, the more likely they are to foster conspiracy
theories. Of course, people with a corrupt ruling class are more
inclined to believe bad things about their betters, so the metric would
pick up that side as well. The conspiracy metric would be capturing one
aspect of social trust. That is the horizontal bonds that bind the
ruling class of a society to the layers beneath them.

Now, the major flaw, at least at this stage, is measuring the number and
degree of conspiracy theirs in a society. It’s another one of those
things that we can sense, but we struggle to define. We know the
difference between pornography and art, in a general sense, but drawing
the line is difficult. The same can be said for the line between
conspiracy theory and simple suspicion. We can easily identify the
extremes but figuring out where to put the line is difficult.

Maybe like the truth gap between official reality and actual reality,
the conspiracy index does not have to be precise. We don’t need an exact
number to see that the official truth from the current ruling class is
much further from reality than in the past. We have enough examples to
know the gap is much bigger. The same can be said for the conspiracy
metric. QAnon would not have fooled people 50 years ago. We have more
stupid and paranoid people today than back then.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
