---
title: "GE: The Story Of America"
date: "2020-06-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20786"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20786"
---

If you were to pick one company that symbolizes how America has changed
and been changed over the last half century or so, it would be General
Electric. The company founded by Thomas Edison is in many ways a
microcosm of the American economy over the last century or more. It rose
to become an industrial giant in the 20th century, the symbol of America
manufacturing prowess. It then transformed into a giant of the new
economy in the 1990’s, a symbol of the new America.

Today, General Electric is a company in decline. After a series of
problems following the financial crisis of 2008, the company has
steadily sold off assets and divisions in an effort to fix its financial
problems. In 2019,
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Markopolos"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Harry Markopolos</a>, the guy
who sniffed our Bernie Madoff, accused them of $38 billion in accounting
fraud. The stock has been removed from the Dow Jones Industrial
composite. Many now speculate that GE will end up in bankruptcy in order
to reorganize.

For those interested in a longer discussion about the history of General
Electric, Myth of the 20th Century did a <a
href="https://myth20c.wordpress.com/2020/06/25/the-rise-and-fall-of-general-electric/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">podcast</a> on the company.
One aspect they did not cover is how General Electric transformed from a
company that made things into a financial services company that owned
divisions that made things. Like the American economy in the late 20th
century, the company shifted its focus from making and creating things
to the complex game of financializing those processes.

Like many companies in the late 20th century, General Electric found
that their potential clients were not always able to come up with the
cash to buy their products, so they came up with a way to finance those
purchases. This is an age-old concept that has been with us since the
dawn of time. Store credit is a way for the seller to profit from the
cash poor in the market. He can both raise his price and also collect
interest on the payments made by his customers relying on terms.

For American business, this simple idea turned into a highly complex
process, involving tax avoidance strategies and the capitalization of
the products and services formerly treated as business expenses.
Commercial customers were no longer buying products and services, but
instead leasing them in bundled services packages, financed at super-low
interest rates and tax deductible. Whole areas of the supply chain
shifted from traditional purchases to leased services.

For example, a local supplier of industrial goods used to own a
warehouse to hold the products he supplied to clients. Inside would not
only be the products, but material handling equipment like forklifts and
shelving. Outside at the loading docks would be a fleet of big scary
trucks used to deliver the products. Of course, to make it all work
would be a staff of people loading and unloading trucks, moving product
around the warehouse, making deliveries to clients and so on.

All of this would require a lot of money to acquire and maintain. That
small local distributor would have millions tied up in assets. This is
where the magic of cheap credit came into the economy. Companies like GE
could go to these suppliers and unleash that capital tied up in those
assets, by converting them into leased services. The trucks, for
example, would no longer be purchased, but leased from a GE division
that paid the taxes, did the repairs and provided spares in peak times.

As an aside, another aspect of this new leased economy is what happened
with the people inside of it. That local supplier could not only lease
his trucks and material handling equipment; he could lease his people.
The building, the warehouse people, the administrative staff, the
trucks, all of it, could be turned into a single lease payment for
larger operators. This allowed the big players to muscle out the small
players in just about every aspect of the supply chain.

What really made this new form of store credit work was both super-low
borrowing rates for big players like GE, but also changes in the tax
laws that allowed these lease payments to be treated like depreciation.
The customer not only got the benefit of holding his cash he would
normally use for asset acquisition; he could also get favorable tax
treatment on the lease expense. To no one’s surprise, the big lobbyists
for these changes in the tax laws were the financial services firms.

That is what GE became in the 1990’s. It was no longer a company that
made stuff and financed it for select clients. It was a financial
services firm that owned manufacturing facilities that supplied products
it could finance. GE Capital became a massive commercial bank, not
entirely regulated like a commercial bank and free to invent new
financial services to meet its needs. They bought up manufacturing and
commercial services companies, in order to monopolize their financing
operations.

In the old economy, the credit system existed to serve the broader
economy. In the new economy, the broader economy exists to serve the
credit system. That which can be turned into a credit instrument
increases in value, while that which cannot be bundled into a financial
instrument loses value. Small players that provide specialized services
lose value, while global players with easy access to credit increase in
value. Everyone and everything serves the global credit system now.

This is what happened with General Electric as its credit empire grew.
It was first and foremost a finance company. Since the flow of cheap
credit was unlimited, the need to find new places for the credit became
the point of GE. They bought companies in order to have new clients for
their financing arm. They expanded the realm of that which could be
leased and financed. By the end of the Jack Welch era, the point of
General Electric was to grow bigger in order to supply more credit.

This financialization of the economy also allowed companies like General
Electric to maintain implausible growth rates. This is where that credit
machine at the heart of the company came into play. They could finance
acquisitions with cheap credit. They could structure the purchase of a
company in such a way as to realize its revenue now, while amortizing
its debt and expenses. Suddenly that new division was wildly profitable
through the miracle of off-balance sheet transactions.

The last financial crisis broke General Electric, by exposing a reality
of the modern credit-based economy. Without new ways to move credit
through the system, the credit system begins to seize up. Since the
profit in this system is entirely through the skim, the slowing of
credit means a collapse in profits. Once those profits disappear, the
ability to make interest payments declines and that slows the system
further. GE was close to insolvent within days of the mortgage crisis in
2008.

That is the real lesson of General Electric. The company became
something like the old Mafia bust-outs. The whole point of the business
was to squeeze every drop of value from clients and divisions. Instead
of running up the credit lines and burning down the building for the
insurance, General Electric turned the human capital of companies into
lease and interest payments. They were not investing and creating, they
were monetizing and consuming whatever it touched.

GE came close to collapse in the financial crisis, but they were bailed
out. They stagger on, despite having lots of divisions that make high
quality products. The cost of unwinding the company back into a normal
company will be high, maybe too high for them to survive. The same can
be said of the American economy. It will have to be unwound, but there
will be no bailout. Instead, it will have to unwind quickly and
painfully, in order to become a normal economy again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
