---
title: "Witnessing The Revolution"
date: "2020-08-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21145"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21145"
---

Like the Democrat convention, the Republican convention is mostly about
the past, in that it is packaged and marketed to people who no longer
exist. The Democrats put on a show that would have been great for their
coalition of a generation ago. The Republicans are doing much of the
same, tailoring their pitch to white civic nationalists, feeling
generous in their prosperity. It’s a lot of happy warrior stuff, even
though the warriors are too old now to be happy about anything.

American politics has been increasingly backward looking since the end
of the Cold War and the rise of the Baby Boomer generation of
politicians. No group has been as nostalgic, especially for their own
past, as the Boomers, so it makes some sense that their politics would
be backward looking. Clinton was supposed to be their generation’s
Kennedy, while Obama was their Martin Luther King. Of course, every
Republican has been one of their favorite bogeymen from their past.

The odd thing about Baby Boomer political nostalgia is it is both a
longing for a past that never really existed, but also a nostalgia for a
present that never occurred. On the Left, this manifests as fond
memories for the 60’s revolution, of which they played no part, but also
a sadness for it never living up to the promise. Most of the Boomer
politicians lived normal middle-class lives. They were never street
radicals. Then there is the fact that the cultural revolution was the
work of their parents.

Conservatives have a similar thing going on. For them, the past starts
in the 1980’s as the peak expression of post-war America. They don’t
dream of going back to the fifties, because that would be racist.
Instead it is the 80’s, when there was no racism, but it was still great
to be white. On the other hand, there is the sadness that the Reagan
revolution never amounted to much more than the conversion of America
into a continent sized economic zone with an army.

There is more to the backward focus than generational nostalgia. The
dynamic that emerged after the last industrial war has reached its end.
The Left-Right political dialectic that rose up in the 1950’s was a
product of the Cold War. It was a power sharing arrangement within the
new ruling class of the new empire. The Left would hold sway over
domestic issues, while the Right would run foreign policy. Economics was
where they would hold mock battles during elections.

Once the Cold War ended, that dynamic stopped making sense. It is why
the neocons are so desperate to revive tensions with Russia and continue
the crusade against the Muslim world. They oppose a confrontation with
China, because they have no cultural connection with the East and they
see financial opportunities there. The people who finance their
lifestyles are getting rich in China. The old dynamic was [very
good](https://www.amazon.com/Jewish-Century-Yuri-Slezkine/dp/0691127603)
for the usual suspects, so they desperately want to revive it.

Something similar is happening on the Left. The stuff we are seeing with
left-wing agitation and rioting is like a weird cargo cult. They are
reenactors playing roles they heard their grandparents talk about at
family gatherings. Those behind it are trying to conjure a familiar
bogeyman from the past. They desperately want Bull Connor to show up
with fire-hoses and attack dogs. They’ll settle for idiots in homemade
armor, just so they can pretend it is yesterday.

It is common to call the 1960’s a cultural revolution. Some say it was
the sexual revolution or maybe the youth revolution. Still others point
out that the revolution started in the 1950’s with black civil rights.
The great cultural upheavals that transformed the country started soon
after the war and petered out in the 1980’s. The scene then shifted to
the financial and technological revolutions that took America from the
industrial age into the current age. The revolution never ended.

This is something the Bolsheviks figured out before anyone else. A
society that moves from one static state to another is not
revolutionary. It is merely adjusting in order to preserve the old
order. A revolutionary society is one in which change is constant,
because the revolution never ends. Of course, everything ends, but a
real revolution never ends on its own. It must be extinguished.
Otherwise, every change fuels the next change, which fuels a subsequent
change.

This was the case with the Bolsheviks. The revolution carried on through
the war and into the Cold War. Eventually, after Stalin and then
Khrushchev, the people in charge had enough revolution and they entered
a period of stasis. Despite all the rhetoric, Russia became a very
conservative empire in the 1970’s and remained so until it collapsed in
the 80’s and 90’s. Interestingly, the radicals were also right about
what would happen once the revolutionary fires were extinguished.

Unlike Russia, America has remained in a revolutionary state. In fact,
once could argue that the revolution started before the great industrial
wars. You could probably date it to Gettysburg or maybe the [Social
Gospel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Gospel) movement. Some
argue that the Civil War was a second founding of the nation, a rework
of the first, but repairing the flaws in the original founding. This
would then be the birth of the revolutionary America, the genuinely
revolutionary America, that exists today.

In that context, the nostalgia and tumult we are seeing today is another
chapter in the story of revolutionary America. As Fidel Castro said,
revolutions are a fight between the past and the future. In present day
America, the future is a land of different tribes with no shared
history, language or culture. The past is the America both sides of the
fading ruling class celebrate in their conventions. The thing that is
certain in this fight is the future always wins, which is what we are
witnessing.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
