---
title: "Suspicious Minds"
date: "2020-12-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22063"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22063"
---

The Panic of 1873 is one of those events that was important at the time,
but gets little discussion today. One reason is it does not fit modern
narratives, as the villains and victims are not familiar today. It is
one of those events that just seemed to happen and all of these years
later it is not clear why it happened. There are lots of possible
causes, but not one obvious cause. The resulting decades long
depression, however, setup the 20th century and the two great industrial
wars.

Another important event that gets little attention these days is the
Great Fear that preceded the French Revolution. This was a period of
panic, fear and conspiracy theories that swept rural France. Rumors
circulated about various plots by the King and the aristocratic classes.
For reasons no one has been able to explain, the peasants became
increasingly sure the First Estate was about to overthrow the Third
Estate, which eventually led to the revolution.

One of the many interesting things about the Bolshevik Resolution is the
parallels between it and the French Revolution. Lenin was supposedly a
student of the latter, so the lessons of it informed his decisions.
Whether this is true or not is like so much else about our history. No
one can say for sure now. One clear parallel, however, was the fear and
panic preceding the February revolution. Suddenly, no one could trust
anyone, so everyone was willing to believe the most outlandish tales.

The one thread that runs through economic panics, periods of civil
unrest and great social upheavals like revolutions is the collapse in
trust. It is not just the trust in individuals like a king or rich
people. Human societies have been dealing with dishonest rulers for a
long time. Monarchs come and go and people quickly adjust. When everyone
knows the problem is a man or group of men, the solution to the problem
is always at hand. No man, no more problems.

Panics are different. The fear is driven by the sense that nothing can
be trusted, even one’s own assessment of events. In the case of economic
panics, when a big powerful bank fails, impoverishing its clients, how
can one trust anything about the financial system at that point? If all
of a sudden the currency loses a big chunk of its value, how can anyone
trust the economic system itself? In times when the foundations of the
system lose credibility, no one can trust anything in the system.

A simple example makes this clear. If in your place of work, the
software system used by the company suddenly produces errors, everyone
raises an alarm. Work stops until the people in charge of the software
either explain why the unexpected result is, in fact, correct or they
find the cause and repair it. The software system holds the business
rules of the company, so when those rules appear to be to failing, the
logic of the business is called into question. The users begin to panic.

The reason people panic is that trust is built on predictability and
predictability relies on rules and the orderly enforcement of those
rules. When the rules stop making sense or their enforcement becomes
arbitrary, it becomes impossible to predict the outcome of one’s
actions. When you cannot trust the rules, you cannot trust the results
of your own decisions, which means you cannot trust even yourself. When
people can trust nothing they are willing to believe anything.

America appears to be in one of those moments when the people are
suddenly thrust into a world in which they can no longer trust anything.
The extraordinary events of the last election have caused tens of
millions to question the system itself. Even those who voted for Biden
are coming around to the idea that it was not on the level. Now we are
seeing wild claims rocketing around the internet about what is happening
to various people and what is happening behind the scenes.

The new rumors and claims are a bit nutty, but the fact is this has been
building for a while, going back to before the prior election. Think
back and there were all sorts of rumors about Hillary Clinton. People
were willing to believe them because she is a terribly corrupt person
and a notorious liar. You cannot trust anything that is said by her, her
associates or anyone aligned with her. Today, everyone views the system
the same way we have viewed Hillary Clinton for decades.

Another interesting aspect to this time of rumor and panic is the fact
that the political class has not learned from the economic class. The
lesson the bankers learned from the depression of 1929 is that one tool
in their arsenal had to be a form of shock and awe as they addressed the
crisis. The display of power by the central bank would fill the void of
trust and quell the panic. This has proven to be highly effective, as we
saw with the mortgage crisis in 2008. Everyone trusted the Fed.

Looking back at the French and Russian revolutions, there were points
when the ruling class could have restored some trust in themselves and
the system. They had opportunities to change the dynamic and bring
people back into a political process they could trust. They failed to do
so, often choosing a path that further eroded what little trust the
people had in them. We’re seeing similar failures today, as the ruling
class carries on as if nothing is happening outside their mansions.

This is how suspicious minds become radical minds. When people get
suspicious over something like the election anomalies, they are looking
for an explanation from a source they want to trust. When that natural
authority mocks or dismisses their suspicion, that becomes part of a new
narrative to explain both the anomalies and the unexpected reaction to
it. That why the rumors are flying. Suddenly, tens of millions are in
the market for a new narrative to explain what they are seeing.

Just as important, tens of millions of American are moving from a mode
where they think the government has bad elements to a mode where the
suspect the government itself is the bad element. When public trust in
the system sharply declined a generation ago, the system had a solution.
Reagan channeled that distrust into a reform effort that restored trust
in the system. Today, the Pretender Biden and his coterie of flunkies
and door holders is channeling that distrust into conspiracies.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="tZjCx0aGqDd5PiJpP6GuPQ==cb7qxk468quR9T0Me0j2Uw/8Q9tPObs9pfBNBO/918eFJIQ8U9uQgLYBfcRcpPRMHaH"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="vpnPFNOGOg5sxle+xm1lbQ==cb7FXsZiM4Eup7xk3OHsd/52i5F0qCJx5MjLl+UOPY1UxfE0Jz3/C9W8u3PpMo2aiNO"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
