---
title: "Radical Parallels"
date: "2020-02-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19804"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19804"
---

At the end of President Trump’s State of the Union speech last night,
the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, dramatically tore up her copy of
the speech. Given the state of left-wing politics, it is smart to assume
it was a well-rehearsed stunt cooked up by an army of pollsters, drama
coaches and consultants. On the other hand, the woman is so feeble
minded now it is unlikely she could remember where she is, much less a
carefully constructed role. It was probably authentic.

Pelosi is considered one of the more sober minded people in the
Democratic Party, but that speaks to the derangement of the party and
the political class. Not so long ago, she was a member of the fruitcake
wing of the House. That was the collection of far-left goofballs that
everyone joked about, often to their faces. Her district was known for
being the most left-wing, and whitest, districts in the House. Now she
is the Speaker and the head of the “moderate” wing of her party.

This is not without precedent. In the 19th century, radical
anti-abolitionists started out as the extreme fringe of social
reformers. These were mostly women and effeminate males coming from
reformed Christianity. The sober minded reformers wanted to find a
practical way to wind down slavery. Even Lincoln saw the radical
Republicans as a threat to sanity, but eventually the radicals were able
to push their way to the center of American political life in the
aftermath of the war.

It is a useful parallel to this age. The story of the Civil War was
recast in the 20th century to please the vanity of the new managerial
class, so most people have no idea what happened before or after. The
impeachment of Andrew Johnson, for example, should be a popular topic
today, given what is happening, but that incident does not fit the
modern narrative. It was not much of a topic during the Clinton
impeachment either, which speaks to the larger issues involved in the
narrative.

In the run-up to the Civil War, the radical abolitionists were every bit
as delusional about human nature and how society could be organized, as
the radicals of this age. Their experience with blacks of any type was
limited to those they experienced in their salons and meeting houses.
The “magic negro” phenomenon was probably born in this era, as it both
titillated and encouraged the radicals. The radical was not ending an
immoral practice but saving a glorious people from bondage.

The radicals were sure that defeating the South would not only end the
practice of slavery, but wipe out the culture and people that maintained
it. This was the birth of anti-white hatred among Northern radicals.
These people imagined a South that was literally run by the former
slaves, while the white remnant lived under their rule. Of course, the
reality of war and its aftermath did not sway them. The reality of
reconstruction only made them more fanatical and angrier.

If you look at the history of someone like Henry Winter Davis, a radical
from Maryland, you see the decent into radicalism. He was an Episcopal
clergyman, then as now a common source of radical madness. He was a
slave holder and Whig, then moved into anti-slavery politics. He then
flipped into abolitionism, siding with Republicans and eventually
becoming a leader of the radicals. He co-sponsored the infamous
Wade–Davis Bill, which even Lincoln thought was too much.

It is a useful parallel to now. The radicals of today really thought the
election of Obama was the dawn of a new post-white age. They even talked
about the parallels between him and Lincoln. The new post-white world
would no longer have to tolerate, much less placate, the bad whites in
places like the old South. Further, the elevation of Hillary Clinton as
the first female president, would complete the circle. The door would
finally be closed on old white male America.

Just as the reality of the war and its aftermath further radicalized the
already radical Republicans, the election of Trump sent the modern
radicals into a frenzy. In the 19th century, the frenzy led to the
impeachment of Andrew Johnson, for the crime of holding office and
following through on Lincoln’s reconstruction plans. Today, the radicals
have impeached Trump for the crime of existing. In both cases,
impeachment is a cathartic tantrum or a moan of agony of the unrealized
destiny.

Interestingly, Henry Winter Davis wrote <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/War-Ormuzd-Ahriman-Nineteenth-Century/dp/1313767050"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a book</a> early in his
career, titled, The War of Ormuzd and Ahriman in the Nineteenth Century.
In it, Davis described the American Republic and the Russian Empire as
the opponents in a global struggle for the salvation of humanity. Given
that America could barely guard its own shores at the time, it was quite
a grandiose vision. It is a good reminder though that American radicals
have had an obsession with Russia for a long time.

Historical comparisons are only useful as rules of thumb, rather than
precise, point by point, comparisons. The radicals of the 19th century
were operating in a different world than the radicals of today. Even a
fanatic like Henry Winter Davis would have recoiled in horror at what
passes for normal now. Even so, it is a useful comparison that helps
explain the current year. Then as now, radicalism must burn itself out
in the destruction of that which it seeks to reform.

In the fullness of time, this age will most likely be viewed as the end
point of a cycle that began in the last century. Perhaps the end of
several cycles. The end of the Jewish century in America will be a cabal
of paranoid Jewish radicals failing to remove the last white male
president. Impeachment will be the last gasp of the old order, ushering
in an age of reform. Maybe it will be the end point of order itself,
setting off the final battle between the radicals and the defenders of
civilization.

No one can know, but the Civil War was both the end of a long cycle that
dated back to before the founding and the start of something new. People
living in the age of Lincoln could easily relate to the people who lived
through the Revolution. Two generations later and the people were
entirely divorced from their past. They were the product of a new
founding, a new republic. Something similar probably lies in store for
the people two generations from now. This age will be foreign to them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
