---
title: "A Bridge Too Far"
date: "2020-04-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20247"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20247"
---

The other day, I witnessed a Korean complain about whites using “WuFlu”
or “Kung Flu” to describe the Chinese flu. He claimed that he and his
family have been the victims of harassment, because angry whites are
blaming China for the flu. Because white people are raging racists, we
cannot tell the difference between Koreans and Chinese, so Koreans are
getting the business from roving mobs and angry whites. It’s all
nonsense, but not surprising. Hating white people is the national
pastime.

This event happened on a message board, so I took the opportunity to
remind the Korean guy that many white people lost family members saving
his people from the clutches of communism. If not for white people, he
would be standing in a rice paddy or pushing a wooden boat along a
diseased river. That assumes he would be alive, as the life expectancy
of Koreans was quite low until white people arrived. In a sane world, he
would spend one day a year thanking white people.

If there is to be just one line to describe the history of white people
on this planet, it should be “No good deed goes unpunished.” White
people literally pulled the world out of the dark ages, but the world
remains an ungrateful place. Asians in America are now working on their
grievance tales, about how the round-eye was mean to them during the
great yellow pandemic of 2020. The fact that they would be eating bugs
and living in huts if not for the white man is conveniently forgotten.

One has to wonder if this is a bridge too far. Whites can tolerate
ungrateful blacks, because of slavery. There’s also the fact that left
to their own devices, blacks revert to a Neolithic lifestyle. Without
white people, Africa would look like a Tarzan movie. This is something
even the most far-left person knows, even if they refuse to admit it.
White people feel obliged to help Africans, despite the lack of
gratitude. It remains to be seen if the same dynamic can hold up with
Asians.

Asia is not Africa. After the war, Japan rebuilt itself with the help of
America and joined the modern world quite quickly. Korea took a lot
longer, but once they found the right strongman, he pulled his people
into the modern world. Again, massive help from America made it
possible, but they eventually made it. Other Asian societies have joined
modernity in fits and starts. Even Vietnam, which is one of the most
backward places in Asia, has slowly modernized over the last few
decades.

China, of course, is the elephant in the room. It was a backward,
barbaric madhouse through the 1970’s. Before Deng Xiaoping dragged his
country out of the dark ages of Maoism, it was one of the most
dysfunctional societies on earth. Even so, she went from barbarism to
modernity at a remarkable rate. China is still very Chinese, but China
is not Africa. In fact, all of Asia has the human capital to avoid being
Africa, even if the West turns its back on the continent. They don’t
need us.

The same applies in America. Asians have never suffered much in the way
of discrimination in America. The Japanese internment always gets
brought up, but that was thoroughly justified. War is never pleasant.
Otherwise, white people in America have welcomed Asians into the country
and allowed them to make what they will of themselves and Asians have
done quite well. East Asians have a median household income of $85,349
compared to $57,865 for whites.

Without the burden of slavery or low human capital, it seems like a hard
sell to convince whites to feel guilty toward Asians. In fact, the
result of such an effort could very well be the opposite, a resentment
toward an ungrateful minority of visitors. Asking Africans to head back
to their ancestral homeland is unreasonable. Asking Asians to go back to
their homelands is not so unreasonable. Korea is a sparkling first world
country, so if Koreans are unhappy in America, planes leave daily for
Seoul.

Then there is that China problem. It is highly probable that China
poisoned the world, causing massive damage and suffering. Maybe it was
an accident. Maybe it would have happened anyway, but the evidence is
clear that China lied to the world about the nature of this virus and
where it started. No amount of special pleading can cause white people
to overlook this. Western politicians, despite their lunacy, will have
no choice but to address the China problem, even if that makes the other
Asians sad.

It is not just the virus or the lying about it. People forget that the
Chinese tried to [poison the world’s
pets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2007_pet_food_recalls) a few years
back. In 2007, many brands of cat and dog foods had to be recalled due
to contamination with melamine. The Chinese also [poisoned our
toothpaste](https://abcnews.go.com/Health/Healthday/story?id=4507395&page=1)
with toxic chemicals. Go way back and we have the expression “sand
bagging” from the way dishonest Chinese tea merchants tried to cheat
their European customers. This is what’s called a pattern of behavior.

To Westerners, Asian habits are barbaric, but not primitive. Again,
Asians are not backward people like Africans. Asians know better, but
choose to eat dogs and cats and turn pests into bizarre delicacies. They
choose to poison our pet food. With choice comes responsibility. If
Asians choose to do these things, then the West has no choice but to
turn its back on Asians. As we see with the virus pandemic, as a matter
of survival, the West will have reevaluate its relationship with China.

That’s what makes the effort by Asians in America to play the victim
card seem like a bridge too far. They can file their complaints with the
office of grievances, but that line is very long. The reason the line is
especially long is social distancing means everyone has to stand six
feet apart. That and half the staff is working at home in order to avoid
being too close to one another. No, there will not be a pogrom against
Asians, but whitey is in no mood to hear their complaints.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
