---
title: "The Good White Bible"
date: "2020-05-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20598"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20598"
---

A strange thing that used to be more common a decade ago, but still
persists to this day is the use of the book <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Guns-Germs-Steel-Fates-Societies/dp/0393317552"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Guns, Germs and Steel</a> as
an escape hatch. That is, when a conversation with good whites turns to
biology, they will at some point attempt to change the subject by
bringing up this book. Always, it is in the form of “A great book on
this is Guns, Germs and Steal. Have you read it?” After all these years,
it remains the one acceptably dangerous book they have read on the
subject.

In this context, dangerous means that the book sort of accepts the fact
that human populations are not exactly the same everywhere. The book
attempts to explain why Eurasian and North African civilizations have
defined the story of man, while arguing against biological reality. For
good whites, merely acknowledging that sub-Saharan Africans have little
to show for their time on earth is scary. Even though Diamond is a
biological denialist, the book is still a dangerous read.

Of course, it is acceptable because of that denialism. The thesis of the
book is that serendipity and ecology explain why some human populations
have advanced beyond simple farming, while others have not. Diamond
makes many claims about different food stuffs, weather and pathogens to
explain why Europeans, in particular, have risen to the top of the human
hierarchy. The basic claim, in a nutshell, is they got lucky and really
don’t deserve their spot at the top of the hierarchy.

This is a familiar theme for those who have read the writings of Ben
Shapiro and Yoram Hazony, both of whom make similar claims. In the case
of Shapiro, he argues that Europe was the creation of Hellenize Jews,
who arrived with the Romans. He is not that honest or explicit, but that
is his claim. Hazony takes a similar approach, but credits the Romans
for imposing culture on the people of Europe. He also credits dumb luck
in explaining why Europe is not the Levant or Mesopotamia.

This makes sense from the perspective of Zionist Jews. They view life as
a great struggle between people, particularly their people, the Chosen
People, and the rest of the people of the world. They don’t have to
think too hard about why they are superior to Arabs, but Europeans are
another matter. The Jewish people don’t have a big trophy case like the
people of the Occident. They credit this to dumb luck in order to
maintain the fiction that they are still God’s favorite people.

Now, it is important to note that the Diamond book is riddled with
errors of fact and logic that undermine the central premise. In fact,
there are so many of these errors it has to be assumed the author knew
he was making false claims. For those with some time to kill, Ryan Faulk
made a <a href="https://youtu.be/qvaxPH3ftUQ" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">two hour video</a> going into the details of Diamond’s
claims about agriculture and animal husbandry. The best you can say
about Guns, Germs and Steel is it is a masterful display of modern
sophistry.

Now, ecology did play a defining role in shaping the people of Europe,
just as it did the people everywhere on earth. Fundamental to the human
sciences and dissident politics is that people are different. The people
of Europe are different because they had to be in order to survive and
thrive in their environment, which is radically different from the
environment of Africa. They also mixed with archaic people, just as East
Asians mixed with a different archaic people. Human biodiversity is
real.

The appeal of the Diamond book, the intent of it actually, is to turn
this reality on its head in order to supplant biological reality with
the egalitarian fantasy. The impression Diamond tries to leave on the
reader is that he is accepting the premises of the realists, while
coming to a more parsimonious explanation. This is a similar approach
taken by
<a href="https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12110-018-9310-x"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Nathan Cofnas</a> in his
critique of Kevin McDonald’s book. It is a form of abductive reasoning
meant to persuade, not explain.

Similarly, a book popular with the same crowd twenty years ago was <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Why-Nations-Fail-Origins-Prosperity/dp/0307719227"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Why Nations Fail</a>, which
attempted to solve the same problem. It makes the claim that the reason
the West has raced ahead to lead the world is that they have inclusive
institutions and that economic prosperity depends above all on the
inclusiveness of economic and political institutions. This magical
inclusiveness just fell from the sky and landed in the West, explaining
why the Occident has dominated.

The popularity of these books, and in the case of the Diamond book its
enduring popularity, speaks to the power of the egalitarian faith.
People in modern democracies, particularly bourgeois people, need to
believe that all people are born with the same innate talents and
abilities. The belief is so powerful it can overcome the absurd circular
reasoning in a book like *Why Nations Fail* and raise *Guns, Germs and
Steel* into the gospel of modern liberal democracy.

There is another element to this. The premise is that the “superficial”
differences in people are due to environment, but the people themselves
are all the same, once those environmental issues are removed. This sort
of thinking allows the believer to feel shame for his privilege, while
lamenting the fact the poor browns were not blessed with better stuff or
the divine magic of liberal democracy. The good white can indulge his
natural self-loathing and proselytize for his way of life.

This is a very Christian dynamic. The good white, like the good
Christian, embraces the fallen state of mankind. For Christians, it is
man’s obvious sinful nature. For the good white, it is white privilege,
the undeserved blessings of serendipity. Like the believing Christian,
the good white sees the path to salvation in spreading the faith.
Instead of observable reality leading to an acceptance of the human
condition, it drives a desire to rectify it and overcome the forces that
have shaped it.

This is probably why a book like *Guns, Germs and Steel* remains a
popular text with the good whites. It is literally written to flatter
the reader and offer an alternative narrative to explain observable
reality. White people are not evil because of their nature, but because
of their failure to acknowledge their privilege and put it to good use
in saving the rest of mankind from his plight. To be a good white means
embracing one’s undeserved place in the world as fuel to reform the
world.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
