---
title: "Be Prepared"
date: "2020-03-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20067"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20067"
---

Older readers will surely recall being taught as children the importance
of being prepared for the various emergencies that are a part of life.
Before the usual suspects destroyed the Boy Scouts, preparedness was a
central part of the Scout ethos. People used to regularly make sure they
had things like candles and matches in the house. Every equinox we were
told that it is a good time to check batteries, test out flashlights and
portable radios, as part of general preparedness.

Being prepared fell out of fashion over the last few decades, as
technology made the supply chain a marvel of timeliness. In a world
where you can order something on-line and have it the next day, being
prepared takes on a different meaning. Today, a weather event means
having the latest games on the Xbox and your watch-list ready for a day
of video entertainment. In modern America, emergencies are an excuse to
have a party and enjoy the emergency unfold on television.

This is probably why some people panic and buy ridiculous things like
toilet paper and bottled water before storms and now before the plague.
The emergency triggers something in people. The items they buy are
symbolic. At some level, people know they are dependent on a system that
they don’t understand very well, or trust all that much, to be there
when it counts. The panic buying is a reaction to the sudden reminder
that we are not as prepared to make it very long on our own.

Putting that aside, people need to be prepared for what will unfold over
the next weeks or longer, depending upon how the virus spreads. One
thing you should do is get to know your neighbors. Most people have
limited contact with their neighbors, as most moved from somewhere else.
Take this opportunity to introduce yourself to the other people in the
neighborhood. Give them your contact information. Simply being a good
example like this does a lot to prepare for what’s coming.

Here’s the thing. If the alarmist are right, Netflix will not be
available, because the stack or bodies outside the cable company offices
will keep the techs from entering the building and keeping the grid
running. Playing cards with the neighbors will suddenly have real
meaning in your life. Even if this is not the zombie apocalypse, taking
the opportunity to build a little community with the people around you
will do more for our people than a million lectures from activists.

For young guys, take this opportunity to call the old people in your
life. You will quickly realize the internet banter about the “Boomer
Remover” is childish when you start checking in on the older folks.
You’ll learn the joys and being a man and what it means to be
responsible. The first duty of every man is to protect the vulnerable.
Old people, women, kids, they are your duty. Now is a good time to
practice that habit. You’ll find that it is the greatest gift you can
give yourself.

Sadly, the generations of plenty means we have an unsightly build-up of
maladapted mutants¹ in our ranks. Everyone has a nutty wine aunt or
screeching AWFL² in their life these days. These people don’t get better
under stress. In fact, they will seem worse, because your patience for
them will be lower. Since we are not allowed to burn them at the stake
just yet, you need to plan for them. Remember, they feed on your
irritation, so the plan must be designed to starve them of what they
crave.

There’s also the fact that many high functioning maladapted mutants will
go haywire during this crisis. Remember back to the 2000 election. Think
about how that sort of loopy liberal person in your life suddenly turned
into a lunatic. That election triggered something in these mutants that
sent them around the bend. The 2016 election made many people in our
lives so unpleasant we had to cut them off. The mutant is most volatile
in times of high social stress and uncertainty.

That means you have to be prepared for some people in your life
revealing themselves to be totally bonkers. The social media ghettos are
already full of mutants hoping Trump gets the coronavirus. They will no
doubt be going on about how Orange Man made the virus situation worse by
doing something or not doing something, as the case may be. Remember,
you are not good to anyone if you are sidetracked by these crazy people
in your life. Prepare for a mutant outbreak.

Now, to help with that, here’s a bit of good news on that front.
Maladapted people, like that AWFL in your office, tend to be lower in
overall fitness. Their numbers are mostly a product of good times. That
means they will be more vulnerable to this virus than normal people.
Think about it, these people tend to be sick more often in general, so
nature is probably going to clean up the mess in aisle crazy for us. At
least it is pleasant thought, as you prepare for the zombie apocalypse.

Finally, prepare for that moment when you heard someone use the phrase
“flatten the curve” for the six millionth time. Ritualized recitation of
popular incantations are a part of modern life, but they will get really
bad in this crisis. At some point, you’re going to hear “slow the
spread” one too many times and the fist will instinctively ball up. The
counter to this is to unplug from the media. They are useless anyway.
The first duty of the prepared is to keep their wits about them.

¹<a href="https://youtu.be/Q_LxmuXukmk" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Ed Dutton</a>

²Affluent White Female Liberal

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
