---
title: "Mediocrity Chic: Party At Bari’s"
date: "2020-01-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19648"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19648"
---

Contrary to most opinion, a society’s ruling class attains its position
by being cleverer and more determined than the rest of society. The
first generation to rise to the top of society and establish itself as a
ruling class, or at least an important faction of the ruling class,
earned their way to the position. They may not be smarter or more
virtuous, but their combination of talents is what put them at the top.
Luck played a role, but otherwise, they earned their way into the
position.

Decay is a feature of the universe. Even black holes lose mass over
time, a process known as “Hawking Radiation.” The first generation to
set themselves up at the top of a new order are more ruthless and
intelligent than the rest of society. The generations that come after
them are another matter. Decay sets in with the subsequent generations,
as positions of power are taken up by people who did nothing to attain
their position, other than have the right parents.

An example of this process is in <a
href="https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2019/09/bari-weiss-book-party.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this story</a> about a
Manhattan book party for the New York Times columnist Bari Weiss.
According to the <a href="https://www.jpost.com/50-Influencers-2019"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Jerusalem Post</a>, Weiss is
one of the 50 most influential Jews. In fact, they have her listed as
number seven, which would qualifier as being something of a super Jew.
The veracity of such a claim is disputable, but Mx. Weiss is no doubt an
influential person among the ruling elite. She is treated as an opinion
setter and spokesman for her generation of elites.

Mx. Weiss is also remarkably mediocre. In fact, mediocre in this case is
probably a slander against the honestly mediocre. She was
<a href="https://youtu.be/T77uFdw9HJA" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">famously outfoxed</a> by YouTube personality Joe Rogan,
a man who spends his free time smoking weed, taking blows to the head
and watching cartoons. She went on his show repeating Zionist talking
points, but proved incapable of explaining any of what she was saying.
She was revealed to be a dingbat with no grasp of the basics.

The fact that this was not disqualifying is a sign that the Jewish
ruling elite of today is a significant downgrade from those who made the
last century the Jewish century. Further proof of this is the fact that
people still pretend she is an intellectual. Her participation in the
entirely synthetic Intellectual Dark Web is a sad commentary on the
decline of Jewish intellectuals in America. If the Tribe is counting on
people like Weiss to lead them, they best have the bug-out bags ready.

The career path of Mx. Weiss is what you see in a decaying ruling class.
Her reason to have an exalted position in the media is she was willing
to slander BDS activists while a college student at Columbia. Her hard
work as a skirmisher in that never-ending Bronze Age conflict landed her
a spot at the Jewish Forward. Two years later she is at the Wall Street
Journal and then a few years later the New York Times. That’s quite
remarkable for someone who cannot outwit Joe Rogan.

Of course, Mx. Weiss is not where she is because of her intellect. She
is where she is because she can be relied upon to repeat the talking
points popular with an ossified ruling elite. She has been assigned to
the department charged with repeating the blood libel against white
Americans with regards to Jews. Her first book, <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/How-Fight-Anti-Semitism-Bari-Weiss/dp/0593136055"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank"><em>How to Fight
Anti-Semitism</em></a>, is a collection of talking points Max Boot threw
away, because he thought they would make him look deranged.

Mx. Weiss is not an outlier. She is just an amusing example of the
low-quality harpy that is taking up positions in the ruling class. Her
robotic recitation of Zionist talking points makes for good parody, but
her lack of intelligence is emblematic of the emergent woke intellectual
class. As <a
href="https://www.unz.com/isteve/are-there-any-major-woke-thinkers-who-are-smart/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Steve Sailer recently
noted</a>, it is impossible to find a bright and curious person in the
woke intellectual class. They are not even clever in how they present
the tired dogmas of multiculturalism and intersectionality.

In addition to the overall decline in intelligence of Western society,
another factor plays a role in the rise of a dingbat class. The
intellectual elite that won their positions in the last century selected
proteges who supported their position. They were not selecting people
who would challenge their newly won status. Instead, they selected
people, who agreed with and extended their opinions and ideas. In short
order, flattering the master became the fast track to fame and fortune
in the intellectual set.

Half a century ago, Tom Wolfe described the Manhattan intellectual set
as bourgeois urbanite poseurs, who decorated their language with radical
language in order to affect worldliness and prestige. These were the
sorts of people who liked being seen with radicals and terrorists, but
lived in safe comfortable neighborhoods, made possible by the sorts of
people, who made sure the radicals never won. It was a contrived
radicalism to disguise a timid adherence to conventional bourgeois
norms.

Today, the heirs of those radicals, lampooned by Wolfe, are bourgeois
urbanite poseurs spending their time pretending to be free thinkers and
skeptics. They decorate their language with words and phrases borrowed
from books they never read, in order to affect erudition and
sophistication. Instead of posing as radicals, they pretend to be
thoughtful intellectuals questioning elite opinion. It is a contrived
intellectualism to decorate banal recitations of managerial class dogma.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
