---
title: "Turn Off, Tune Out And Drop Out"
date: "2020-09-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21179"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21179"
---

Television is the great propaganda weapon of the liberal democratic
state, so it is a useful window into the thinking of the oligarchs.
Movies and television shows still have to attract an audience, so they
are usually the trailing edge of whatever the oligarchs are trying to
impose on society, but the ads are a different matter. They are the
leading edge of the latest Progressive fads. They know people will not
abandon a show or movie just because the ads are offensive.

That’s what makes the ads a useful window into the black soul of our
rulers. The ad makers are all from the ruling class. Look at the team
photo of an ad agency and it looks like the faculty of an Ivy League
college. There may be a little color in there for show, but otherwise it
is all men with small hats and people who still write “Episcopalian”
when asked about their religion. The advertising agencies that produce
these ads are the special forces of the Judeo-Puritan ruling class.

This is why the ad makers were ready for the aggressive push to support
the Black Lives Matter stuff after George Floyd died from an overdose.
It is the thing that gets no attention, but should be the focus. Within
days of the event, even before the rioters were in the streets, every
global corporation was running diversity ads. The television services
had all their blaxploitation films and shows ready. They even changed
their graphical interfaces to feature black stuff.

It takes weeks and months to put together a simple ad. The concept has
to be settled and the story boards created. Then there is filming,
editing and final production. A corporate marketing program takes months
to get ready. Changing the look and feel of the TV streaming service to
feature blacks is no small feat. Creating a useful list of “black
creators” should take a week or two, but they had it all ready to go.
This pogrom was in the works for months.

In large part this is why Black Lives Matter initially had lots of white
support, despite its record of murder and mayhem. Just four years ago
BLM was executing cops, but thanks to a barrage of ads, most people
forgot that and were initially inclined to support the cause. Then the
black protesters reminded everyone why Africa is not the high point of
human progress. The ad makers have now shifted the diversity message to
feature homosexuals, deviants and girls playing male roles.

That’s really where you get a clear look into the mind of the oligarchs.
[This ad](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yotXRoLxFdY&feature=emb_title)
for the Marine Corp is getting revived in time for the election. When
the ad was produced three years ago, the official line was that the
Marines made the ad because they were facing pressure from women to let
the girls go into combat units. That’s a lie, of course, as no women
want to go into combat. Most men don’t want to see combat. Lying,
however, is the core of advertising and the modern media.

The ad, of course, is disgusting. The thought of sending mothers and
daughters into combat should make a decent person wretch. People at the
edge of extinction turn their future into weapons of war. The ancients
defined the barbarians, in part, by their habit of bringing their women
and children to the battle. Of course, the absurdity of this little girl
in combat is impossible to miss. Ad makers can normalize just about
anything, but even they are bounded by reality.

You’ll note that the ad makers always use white women when they are
trying to convince girls to be boys. Non-whites always get portrayed in
traditional roles or they are cast as the natural leaders. The military
ads always have the blacks in command positions or as the heroic example
of the military code. That’s what they are selling to the non-whites
they are targeting. Apparently, the oligarchs think they can patrol the
empire with a Tinkerbell army run by 90-IQ officers.

Obviously, that will never happen. It does, however, reveal that these
people are not geniuses who have carefully thought this through. They
are caught up in nutty fads of their own creation, that sweep them along
like flotsam. You see that with the response to the riots this summer.
These idiot mayors, in places like Minneapolis and Portland, really
thought they would be the heroes of these stories. They believed the
agit-prop produced by the cult of social justice.

Even so, there are long term consequences to the culture war waged on
the television screens of America. White males have been mostly removed
from advertising, unless they are the fool or the supplicant. Blacks
have been turned into objects of worship, largely due to television and
advertising. This absurd sense of entitlement by blacks is one
consequence. The negrophilia by many whites is another. It is not beyond
the pale to use the term “ethnic cleansing” for what we are seeing.

At the peak of the 1960’s cultural revolution, Timothy Leary popularized
the phrase, “Turn on, tune in, drop out” as a way to convince people to
detach from the existing conventions and hierarchies in society. Of
course, he was peddling degeneracy and self-abuse to whites, but the
advice actually makes a lot of sense as an antidote to what the
oligarchs are doing to us now. Disconnecting from the system as much as
possible places you beyond the tractor beam of the propaganda organs.

This is the irony of this phase of the cultural revolution. What was
initially pitched as a counter culture movement, was really a war on
heritage America by the newly ascendant managerial class. The way to
overthrow this decrepit and degenerate ruling class is to take their old
advice. White people need to detach from the existing conventions and
hierarchies that support the oligarchs. We need a counter culture that
turns off, tunes out and eventually drops out.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
