---
title: "Observations On The Drug War"
date: "2020-12-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Libertarians
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22378"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22378"
---

**Note:** I have a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/243994" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">post</a> behind the green door on the rile of females in
movies. Since this is the end of the year and a good time to be
grateful, thank you to the 300 who have signed on as patrons to my
efforts.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For generations now, libertarianism has been synonymous with the
legalization of recreational drugs. It is probably a bit unfair, as
libertarianism has a lot more to it than just legalizing weed, but there
is no getting around the fact that they have been obsessed with the
topic for a long time. Libertarians take the broadest possible view on
what could be considered recreations drugs. Their belief is that people
can figure out for themselves what drugs they should or should not take.

The libertarian case rests on a number of assumptions about the human
condition and human organization. One is that people are rational and
act in their best interests or what they believe to be their best
interests. The other is that you are responsible only for you and you
have no duty to your neighbors or community. Those unable to sort their
best interests may kill themselves with drugs, but that’s their problem.
You and the rest of society have no duty or right to stop them.

Again, there is more to libertarianism than the legalization of drugs,
but it makes for a useful entry point to examine their claims about a
wide range of things. Their arguments about drugs can be applied to many
other areas of life. That is the stock response from libertarians when
they are chided about their drug obsession. Although they are extremely
careful to avoid being explicit, the same arguments about drugs could be
applied to speech, assembly, personal defense and so on.

Unlike most of the claims from libertarians, we now have some real-world
experiments in the drug realm to test their claims. Not only have we had
drug prohibition, we now have a lot of experience with legalization. We
even have the unofficial decriminalization of drugs in several cities
now. If the cops are told to ignore open drug use in a city, that is de
fact decriminalization. Generations of claims about the drug war can now
be measured against the reality of drug legalization.

The easy stuff to look at are the claims about crime. In places that
have legalized marijuana, overall crime rates have not changed much.
Property crime rates have not changed significantly and violent crime
has actually ticked up, but that has happened in areas that did not
legalize weed. In the cities that have effectively decriminalized drug
use, like Seattle and Portland, crime has gone up significantly, but
there are other factors at work in these cities driving the rise in
crime.

There are fewer people in the court system for possession charges now,
but no reasonable person doubted that claim. If we stopped arresting
people for murder, the courts would see a drop in murder cases. The
argument for or against legalizing drugs was never about courts of
prisons. It is about the overall quality of life. If a big robust
criminal justice system is what we need in order to have a high quality
of life, only crazy people will complain about that trade-off. Life is
nothing but trade-offs.

When you look at what has been happening in the country in total since
states began to experiment with drug legalization, a pattern emerges. We
have seen a sharp rise in taxes at the state level, some owing to taxes
on drug sales, but also a sharp decline in the rule of law. The Western
states, where marijuana legalization first started, has seen a collapse
in civil order. You have massive homeless camps in Los Angeles, anarchy
in Seattle and Portland. Anarcho-tyranny is the rule out west now.

Another point worth mentioning is that the states rushing to legalize
drugs have also been some of the worst offenders of Covid lockdowns.
California is operating under a bizarre form of martial law. Criminals
and bums can run wild in the streets, but normal businesses are being
shuttered over Covid. Maine has wrecked their tourist industry over
Covid, despite few cases. Massachusetts is operating under a curfew.
Maybe these states did not legalize weed for libertarian reasons.

[<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Capture.png"
class="alignleft size-full wp-image-22380" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 654px) 100vw, 654px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Capture.png 654w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Capture-300x185.png 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Capture-487x300.png 487w"
width="654" height="403" />](https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Capture.png)

 

It is important to underscore that the collapse of civil order in drug
legalizing states is not caused by drug fiends running the streets. The
bums, drug fiends, petty criminals and bourgeois revolutionaries are
symptoms of a larger decline in civil order. The image that is beginning
to emerge is that drug legalization efforts correspond with a collapse
in the willingness of state government to maintain order. The Covid
hysteria is probably just another indicator of this collapse in civil
order.

There is another angle to the drug legalization claims. For generations,
the image of drug legalization promoted by libertarians was that
potheads would be growing weed in their backyards and drugstores would
be dispensing harder drugs just as they sell products for foot fungus
and allergies. If you liked smoking pot, you could grow some plants in
the backyard with your artisanal lettuce. If you had a heroin addiction,
your doctor would provide a prescription for safe heroin.

On the latter point we have plenty of evidence that the libertarians
were completely wrong about legalizing hard drugs. The opioid crisis in
America was created by those benign drug companies. The claim for
generations was that business would never try to kill its customer base.
It turns out that was false. <a
href="https://www.businessinsider.com/who-are-the-sacklers-wealth-philanthropy-oxycontin-photos-2019-1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Sackler family</a> was perfectly
willing to genocide the population for a quick buck. Just imagine if
they did not have to work through the legal system in order to deliver
drugs to people.

We won’t have to wait to learn what would have happened. The marijuana
business is well on its way to becoming the <a
href="https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/tilray-stock-price-aphria-merger-biggest-cannabis-company-tlry-apha-2020-12-1029898402"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">marijuana industrial complex</a>.
Companies operating what amount to government monopolies in the growing
of pot are now worth billions and growing rapidly. When the business
plan for billion-dollar corporations with special access to government
is built on getting your kids hooked on drugs, it is not hard to predict
what will happen. Let a thousand Sacklers bloom.

As with the breakdown in order where drug legalization is popular, the
abuses of global capital in the drug trade are a symptom. Former Speaker
of the House John Boehner is a <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/03/us/politics/john-boehner-marijuana-cannabis.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">marijuana lobbyist</a> now. Former
Speaker Paul Ryan is an <a
href="https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2019/08/paul-ryan-moves-back-to-dc"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">off-the-books lobbyist</a> in Washington,
as he gobbles up corporate donations in preparation for a 2024
presidential run. Former House Majority Leader Eric Cantor is
<a href="https://www.moelis.com/our-team/eric-cantor/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Managing Director at Moelis &amp; Company</a>, where he
lobbies for business deals.

Taken in total, what we will see from the supply side of drug
legalization is the same thing we see everywhere with global capital.
Instead of government regulating business, it is business regulating
government. The state is always the junior partner. It is a form of
post-national colonialism, where global corporations extract resources
from communities with the support of local politicians. The opioid
crisis was just the first wave of what is about to come in the
normalization of drug taking.

There are two takeaways from the first wave of drug legalization. One is
the results are nothing like what libertarians predicted. The states
that are legalizing drugs are not experiencing empty prisons and
courtrooms. Crime has not plummeted as the trade has moved from the
streets to the strip malls. There may be fewer people in jail for
marijuana possession, but that was always a false metric. Those people
are now in jail for other crimes now that they cannot plead down to
possession.

The other takeaway is that drug legalization is not the point of the
libertarian spear, but the leading edge of anarcho-tyranny. The states
rushing to legalize drugs are experiencing the most civil unrest. These
state governments are not legalizing drugs because they love liberty.
They are doing it because they no longer have the will or the desire to
maintain order. In fact, drug legalization appears to be a traveling
partner of a growing wave of illiberal authoritarianism.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="3t3N/c1P38LTb9grEhxIAw==cb7dpOwxxEQvzlJECf3sxiAW4nyWenKOyR3tgF9F0jbI3IBs/YlZcJagspjZmRjgODw"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="nRtFKMLrjQ7y2xQbrWh6Hw==cb7y7TMOWufQo7O2aGSSkncuMQ9SXhEGvAjyBOb9T7uZzNjcujsIWUSDNrEjMHzSSMg"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
