---
title: "The Ash Heap Of History"
date: "2020-10-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21439"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21439"
---

In the fullness of time, the most important development in the Trump era
will be the collapse of conservatism as a political movement. The
official Right had been in crisis for a long time, but the old political
dynamic had locked it in place. If you opposed the Left, the only
alternative was conservatism. Trump did not usher in a new era, so much
as discredit the old. The Left quickly redesigned to self as a defender
of the status quo and institutional power, while the Right has
collapsed.

Even at this early date, it has become a bit trite to note that American
conservatism has collapsed over the last five years. Not only has it
collapsed, in terms of its intellectual influence, but it has become a
ridiculous joke. Even the jokes about it have started to sound a bit
hackneyed, as the absurdity moves beyond satire. When a site calling
itself The American Conservative is making “the conservative case” for
explicitly <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/a-conservative-defense-of-the-black-national-anthem/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">anti-white pogrom</a>s, the
jokes stop being funny.

Even so, it is worth looking at why the American Right has collapsed.
The majority of white people in America have at one time or another
considered themselves conservative or at least were open to it. There’s
never been a majority in favor of Progressive reforms, yet those
reformers have always carried the day, despite the opposition of the
professional Right. It takes a special skill to lose so much despite
having a numerical advantage in a democracy.

One obvious reason for the collapse of conservatism is that it lost all
of its intellectual vigor decades ago. We live in an age of pygmies, but
nowhere is that more obvious than with the professional Right. Half a
century ago, the Right was teaming with serious thinkers. A couple of
decades ago, National Review had a half a dozen or more quality thinkers
and polemicists. Today, no one can think of a single writer or thinker
on the Right that is worth a minute’s time.

That really is the striking thing about what has happened to America in
general, but the Right in particular. It is as if anyone with the least
bit of curiosity about the world has been driven off and replaced by
former postal workers. The distinguishing feature of the American
intellectual class is its doctrinaire dreariness. Everyone with anything
on the ball and a curiosity about the world operates out on the fringes.
The American intellectual class is a as vibrant as the surface of the
moon.

Another facet of this, a byproduct of the suffocating dullness, is an
inability of conservatives to examine how they came to this dead end.
<a href="https://americanmind.org/essays/administrative-discrimination/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This piece</a> in the American
Mind, which is supposed to be the free-thinking outlet for conservatives
looking to break free of the old modes of thought, is a good example. On
the surface, it is supposed to be an analysis of the administrative
state, which should mean the managerial state, but instead it means “big
government” in the old hackneyed way.

Note that the writer takes as a given the basic assumptions of the Left.
His opposition to what he describes as the administrative state, is that
it is anti-democratic, prejudiced and discriminatory. This is the sort
of complaint that was popular on the Left a generation ago, when they
would attack corporate America. In the hands of conservatives, it
becomes a complaint about having to deal with a thicket of bureaucrats
down at the local motor vehicle department.

Even more ridiculous, their critique of the administrative state tries
to use guilt by association to win over their enemies on the Left. You
see, <a
href="https://www.nationalreview.com/2020/07/the-confederate-roots-of-the-administrative-state/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the roots</a> of the
administrative state are in the Confederacy! You see that my woke
brothers? The thing you now control is every bit as racist and
cis-gendered as those statues you are toppling all over the country. It
is not just a rhetorical devise. Conservatives truly believe that
current crisis is rooted in human preference.

The weird logic of modern conservative thinking is worth noting.
Professor Hamburger seems to think the great obstacle to the Progressive
dream of an egalitarian paradise are the tools the Left has been using
to create that paradise. Not only will they agree to throw down their
weapons, they will suddenly stop their aggression. It is a bizarre form
of utopian thinking. It is even more bizarre, given that the greatest
threat to individual liberty is woke capital, not the government.

What is even more striking about this is just how obtuse this line of
thought is, given that within conservative intellectual traditions there
are far better critiques. Within living memory, Samuel T.
Francis and Paul Gottfried wrote extensively about the managerial state,
building off the analysis of James Burnham. Perhaps it is understandable
that Francis has been forgotten in conservative circles, but Gottfried
is still around and active at publications like the American
Conservative.

This gets back to the barren intellectual landscape in general, but the
aridity of conservatism in particular. Modern conservatives operate in
the lowest tier of intellectual discourse, which is the practical. This
is where they debate where to move commas around the tax code and how to
tinker with existing structures. The Left operates at the next tier,
which focuses on the process. For them, the administrative state is one
item in the toolkit they have in the war on the general culture.

What has been lost in this age is anyone that can look down about this
dynamic between strategy and tactics and understand the ideas and
historical forces that are carrying these combatants along. This should
be the role of conservatism. It should be the engine producing a new
moral and political paradigm to challenge the prevailing orthodoxy, but
instead it is just an obstacle in the way of that process. This is why
it has collapsed and is headed to the ash heap of history.

While Trump and the people around him are oblivious to his role in this
historical period, their anti-intellectualism is the necessary agent to
break the old dynamic. Conservatives have no answer for his blunt
observations and the Left has had its skin peeled back to reveal its
reptilian interior. Trump has been a clarifying event, one that will
usher conservatism off the intellectual and political stage. What
replaces it is something suited for the demographic age.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="j8lil8FyVu/KBRrUMWUHuQ==cb7LKqbRg9T3gSJDUYYhegOwL0jKeNbpwTlxMET/Jg3Hbn73QeVxfb3AbMdtDkvVday"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="6ftPcmHjNLgb/8DUFwK5uA==cb7cC3iXX4WPu+eXklJ80wOJ78kE57sDxagw1PIW0t01CeMTtSGCM5YDBMOOqXppHuk"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte
