---
title: "What If You’re Wrong"
date: "2020-02-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19813"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19813"
---

A good rule that no one anywhere follows, is to contemplate the
consequences of being wrong before doing something. For example, if
legislatures had to post a wrongness analysis for every bill before they
could be voted on, at least some of the terrible ideas would get stopped
before becoming law. Of course, that is probably why such a thing can
never happen, at least in a democracy. New ideas are about hope and
nothing is worse than dashing the reformer’s hope for the future.

Even so, thinking about wrongness has its utility. For example, many
people on the Right still cling to the idea that government cannot keep
borrowing money. Going back to the 1980’s, perhaps even further,
conservatives have been predicting that there is some limit to
government debt. Ronald Reagan ran on this idea in 1980, when the
Federal debt stood at $900 billion. Forty years later and the debt is
$23 trillion, a number so large no one can imagine it.

Maybe there is no limit to debt. Maybe what conservatives think they
know about public debt is wrong and disaster is not around the corner.
If this were anything else, that’s how you would bet. If the weather had
been sunny for forty years, despite daily forecasts calling for showers,
you would have stopped listening to the weatherman a long time ago.
Sure, he may be right eventually, but forty years of being wrong still
counts for a lot. Maybe conservatives are just wrong about debt too.

Similarly, what if the growth of the state is not going to lead to a
citizen revolt against a tyrannical government. This is another chestnut
from the so-called conservatives that dates back to the age of Reagan.
He ran on the argument that the government was the problem, not the
solution. The per capita spending of government, in constant dollars, is
close to double what it was in the Reagan years. That’s with the U.S.
population growing by more than half in that same period.

Now, in fairness, there has been a negative result to this massive
expansion of the state over the last forty years. It’s not that people
are angry that it does too much, but that it does too little. This is
true all over the West. The populist revolts are fueled by demands that
the government do more to address the concerns of the people. It turns
out that everyone was wrong about the size of government. The bigger it
gets, the worse it gets at doing the basics and that’s what gets people
angry.

How about multiculturalism? An axiom in dissident politics is that
diversity plus proximity equals conflict. Many of the same people saying
that were wrong about the deficits and the growth of government. Maybe
they are wrong about this too. Maybe they are wrong in entirely
different ways. What we know so far is the importation of fifty million
barbarians has not caused the empire to collapse. It’s made society more
fragile, for sure, but collapse is not in the cards, at least so far.

How about something closer to home? Many people on this side of the
great divide, especially the former alt-right, are sure Trump is going
down to defeat in the 2020 election. They argue that his pandering to
civic nationalists, non-whites and Baby Boomers is alienating his real
base. Further, they argue that he won in 2016 by getting racially aware
whites out to vote. It is a gratuitous assertion, for sure, but it is a
common argument on this side of the great divide. What if it is wrong?

Trump, despite his many faults, has proven to be a natural political
athlete, one we have not seen in a long time. This is a guy who does
everything wrong, according to political convention, yet comes out
smelling like a rose. Remember when everyone said WW3 was upon us when
he droned the Iranian general? How about those predictions about
impeachment? He begged the Democrats to follow through with impeachment
and here he is more popular than ever. Maybe he knows something.

It is very possible that Trump does know what he is doing with all the
pandering to blacks, Hispanics, one-legged lesbian Elvis impersonators
and so on. Further, maybe the votes of the alt-right, white
nationalists, racially aware whites and so forth really don’t count for
a whole lot in elections. It may be an uncomfortable thought, but in a
wrongness analysis, it has to be a possibility. The evidence is pointing
in that direction, so maybe all of these folks are wrong about Trump.

Inaction is largely based on the belief of some inevitability that no
one dares question, because it is comforting. Generations of
conservative white people voted Republican, based on their assumptions
about debt and the size of government. That vote was not action, but
inaction. They comforted themselves in the belief that inevitability
would be the ultimate cure. It turns out that nothing is inevitable in
the affairs of man. Things happen because men make them happen.

The other side of this, the people trying to harness the forces of
society, never stop to wonder if they are wrong. As they work to gain
control of events, they are so certain in their righteousness they
resemble fanatics. They never wonder if they are wrong. They know they
are on the right side of history. As Bertrand Russel put it, “The whole
problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain
of themselves, and wiser people so full of doubts.”

That is the place to start for all dissidents. What if we’re wrong? What
if all of the critiques of and arguments for cosmopolitan globalism are
wrong? What then? That’s start of the journey in search of an
alternative to the prevailing orthodoxy. It is not only the questioning
of conventional wisdom, but the questioning of the critics of the
conventional wisdom. Maybe the reason for the current crisis is that
everyone was wrong about the new world order that emerged after the Cold
War.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
