---
title: "No, It’s Not The Flu, Bro"
date: "2020-03-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20085"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20085"
---

After the Saudi attacks on the World Trade Center buildings, we had a
week of panic and confusion, mostly in the ruling class. Whether it was
true or not, they carried on as if they were caught completely unawares
by the attack. They shut down the airlines and closed the stock market
for a week. Many people stayed home to watch the news and get their
heads around what was happening. Most of America got back to normal
within a few days and everyone waited for the ruling class response.

More than a few people have noted that the vibe in certain parts of the
country has the same feel as the days after 9/11. Then and now, the
northeast was most affected by the aftermath of the event. New Jersey
shutdown after 9/11, but North Carolina carried on pretty much without
interruption. We see a similar pattern now. The mad scramble by the
rulers is also similar. Even the propaganda organs have been disrupted,
having to depart from their normal barrage of hatred for the rest of us.

The important thing about this comparison between this event and the
days after 9/11 is what followed it. Twenty years ago, the first step
was to increase the importation of Muslims into the country. Immigration
across the board increased in the aftermath of the Saudi attacks. Then,
of course, we launched a never-ending crusade against concepts like
terror and extremism. This necessitated a roll-out of the surveillance
state and the expansion of domestic spy agencies and domestic spying.

This trip down memory lane is a useful corrective to the claim that this
panic is just a two-week lock-down in response to the flu. The one-week
shutdown that followed 9/11 brought with it a massive reordering of
American society. In 1999, we did not have secret courts and warrantless
surveillance. Before that event, no one thought they would ever see the
FBI and CIA conducting domestic espionage against politicians, much less
trying to overturn an election.

This month-long lock-down, and that is what they are planning, by the
way, will bring with it a massive re-ordering of society. Think about
what is happening. The government is willy-nilly telling businesses to
shut down. People are being locked into their homes on the orders of
local officials. In the fullness of time, what we see happening will
make Julius Caesar’s crossing the Rubicon river in January 49 BC look
tentative. In a decade, the world of just a few weeks ago will be a
foreign country to us.

If this sounds alarmist to you, consider this. When Bush launched the
forever wars, there were two camps opposed to it. The Left suddenly
discovered its anti-war attitudes and responded with parades and puppet
shows in major cities. It was an extended holiday for their freaks to go
wild in the streets. The leadership, however, chanted absurd slogans
about multinationals like Halliburton, but otherwise went along with it.
The bipartisan uniparty always hangs tough during tough times.

The other opposition came from the paleocons. They correctly pointed out
that this was worse than folly, as it would take generations to fix. The
roll out of the surveillance state would probably require a revolution
to overturn. The wars themselves would end in tears, as the people in
those countries were incapable of sustaining modern liberal democracy,
even if they had an interest in it. Then, of course, there was the price
to paid for handing over foreign policy to our greatest ally.

It should be noted, the same people mocking skeptics about this current
panic, the people derisively chanting “It’s the flu bro”, could not wrap
their heads around why the paleocons were so upset with Bush. Back then
it was “better to fight them over there than over here.” It was not an
answer to the skeptics, but a signal for the herd to come closer
together in mutual defense against a threat. Then as now it is the sound
that sheep make as they are being herded into a new pen.

Barring a collapse or revolution, no one reading this will see an
unwinding of the changes that resulted from the panic of 9/11. This
panic is orders of magnitude worse than what followed 9/11. The one-week
shutdown of the economy gave us a nice recession that required lots of
government intervention. A month long shut down of the economy will
change the world forever. Just look at what is planned after a few days
of this panic. The Republicans are now devotees of Andrew Yang.

The crusade Bush launched against concepts like terrorism and extremism
is still with us, because you can never beat an imaginary enemy. The war
against unapproved microscopic life forms will also never end, How can
it? Just as every snow storm brings demands for people to shelter in
place, every flu season will result in school closures and demands for
people to self-isolate. Just as corporations harvesting your personal
information has been normalized, what we are seeing now will be too.

This is just the tip of the iceberg. We have no way to know what comes
from stopping a 20 Trillion-dollar economy in its tracks. It’s never
been tried, because no one has ever been so insane as to contemplate it.
Then you have the corresponding global shutdown. Maybe everything fire
back up like new starting in May, but that means everything the experts
have been telling us about the economy was wrong. There will be massive
government intervention in the economy.

We are back to the point the paleocons unsuccessfully made back in the
Bush years regarding the war or concepts. The trade-offs involved were
monstrous and unacceptable. In order to keep the free flow of Muslims
into the West and protect Israel from her neighbors, the American Empire
would become a police state. Whatever benefit could possibly be gained
from the war on concepts was dwarfed by the cost of it. 9/11 was
terrible, it was not worth destroying the country over it.

Today we are seeing the same argument. In order to “flatten the curve”
we need to obliterate what’s left of civil life. We have to hand to the
state the power to shutter businesses, lock people in their homes and
reorganizes society as they see fit. The price of flattening the curve
will be a never-ending war on civil life by a thoroughly corrupt ruling
class. So no, it is not just the flu bro. It is not about the stock
market or the economy either. It is about what comes after the flu
decades after it is gone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
