---
title: "Their Summer Of Discontent"
date: "2020-09-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21169"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21169"
---

One of the stranger parts of the summer of left-wing violence is that no
one has bothered to think too much about why the people are rioting.
Sure, the official Left says it is an organic uprising over something or
other. The official Right says these people are communists doing
communisms. That’s the same old tired sloganeering we hear from the
political class all the time. Neither claim gets to the question of why
these people are out in the streets every night in certain cities.

Initially, the Black Lives Matter stuff was just the semi-organized
Democratic Party street activism we have come to expect before an
election. BLM was organized by the Obama administration on the college
campuses. Then it bled into the legacy racial grievance rackets. The
statue toppling after George Floyd overdosed in police custody was
mostly paid for by the party trying to whip up black support. Then it
gave way to the anarchy we are seeing in places like Seattle and
Portland.

That’s an aspect that gets very little attention. The violence we are
seeing is in mostly white cities by mostly white people. Minneapolis is
19% black. Seattle is 7% black and Portland is 6% black. Kenosha is 10%
black and close to 80% white! Note that super-black cities like
Baltimore, St. Louis and Detroit have had no riots. Los Angeles, which
just had a police shooting, could not get a decent riot going. They
tried, but they lack the white kids with back packs needed to do it.

The truth behind these riots is that they have nothing to do with local
issues or legitimate grievances. They are simply a happening that is
drawing in the disaffected white youth that provides bodies for Antifa.
Get up close to an Antifa crowd and what is striking is how unimpressive
they are individually. The males are skinny and awkward, while the
females are loud and ridiculous. These are young whites who have no
place in the neo-liberal order, so they end up in Antifa.

What being in the anarchist underground gives them is the same thing you
see in other types of anti-social subcultures. They get a sense of
purpose, but also a community in which they have a clearly understood
place. They go out and protests or riot with their mates and then have
that to bond over afterward. It is not all that different from the
hooliganism you see around European soccer. The difference is the Antifa
kids come from the middle-class, rather than the working class.

Now, calling them kids is not entirely accurate. The guy who murdered
the Trump fan in Portland is a middle-aged man. Still, he is a good
example of a larger phenomenon that is fueling anarchism and also fueled
the alt-right to some degree. This is a guy who has no place to go in
life. There’s no role for a low-normal intelligence white guy with a
taste for action. He’s probably too dumb for the military and there is
no working-class community for him, so he drifted into anarchism.

The cities that are experiencing the anarchist unrest should be models
for the modern liberal democratic order. They have very low crime. They
are prosperous, bourgeois urban areas based on the new economy. The
young people have access to college and jobs, while living in carefully
curated hipster areas. Portland is what east coast cities aspire to, in
terms of demographics and urban renewal. The whole point of
gentrification has been to look more like Seattle than The Bronx.

The problem is these cities are entirely synthetic. Walk around hipster
parts of these model cities and they seem very nice, but they also feel
like the suburban town centers developers create for their housing
developments. You can’t put your finger on it, but something is missing.
Granted, visitors can’t truly judge these things, but the constant civil
unrest by the younger people suggests they are not happy with the
paradise in the wilderness either. Progressive Whitopia is not working.

Related is the flight out of places like San Francisco and New York. The
plague is being blamed for it. The man-made panic shutting down these
cities is forcing people to find greener pastures. Note, however, that
the people who flocked to these urban oases for the culture, lifestyle
and urban living are unwilling to fight for it. Instead of taking to the
streets demanding more from their mayors, they are just packing the
Subaru and heading for the suburbs. It was all fake and temporary for
them.

What we may be seeing this summer has nothing to do with the tired
clichés from the worn-out political establishment. Instead it is one of
the consequences of trying to turn America into a Potemkin village.
Replacing social capital with likes on social media and pointless
employment in the new economy is not working. The generation that
created it is committing suicide at record numbers. The generation that
is faced with living it would rather watch it all burn than participate
in it.

A truth of the human condition is men need purpose and fraternity. Maybe
it is the military and family life. Maybe it is a frat at college and
then a career. Maybe it is the job site and the local pub. Women need
community and companionship. The nuclear family was created for them.
The liberal democratic world order does none of these things for people.
Living atomized, pointless lives among constantly shifting groups of
strangers is a recipe for disaster, not paradise.

What’s now happening on the Left is a reflection of what has been
happening in the white working and middle-classes. Progressive
politicians cheer it on, because at some level, they wish they could be
in the streets too. The mayor of Portland is living a pointless
existence and he knows it. The difference is these anarchists get to
express their unhappiness outside. Working class whites are ignored and
the white middle class is threatened into remaining quiet.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
