---
title: "Human Progress"
date: "2020-04-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20335"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20335"
---

One of the most remarkable and perhaps most relevant aspects of
communism is how it regressed from an idealistic and inspirational world
view to nothing more than a deeply flawed engineering project. Communism
started out as a set of beliefs about liberating mankind to reach its
full potential. It was not about material goods or political power, but
human accomplishment. By the time the Soviet empire collapsed at the end
of the 20th century, it was about making enough toilet paper and boots.

The early communists, including Marx, looked at work and the pursuit of
material goods as a burden on mankind. Capitalism turned men into slaves
to their own desires for wealth and property. This crude desire for
material goods made them easy to exploit by the capital class. The point
of overthrowing the capitalist system and replacing it with communism
was to free man from that burden. The resulting material prosperity of
communism would allow mankind to reach its full creative potential.

The Soviet empire that emerged from the Second World War was noticeably
short on talk about mankind reaching its full potential. The practical
necessity of feeding, housing and clothing its people consumed the
regime. The great dream of a post-scarcity world of mankind united in
brotherhood had given way to figuring out how to produce enough
necessities to prevent rebellion. The last half of the 20th century was
communism trying to keep pace with capitalism in the production of
consumer goods.

In contrast, what we call western liberalism or liberal democracy
started from the opposite end. Dating and locating the origin of what we
call liberalism is a topic for endless debate, but it is reasonable to
say it is an English thing. The rise of parliament in England as the
counter to aristocratic rule followed by the Industrial Revolution is as
good an origin story as any for liberal democracy. Its purpose was to
increase individual liberty so men could pursue their own material
interests.

Similarly, the American revolution was about government control of
economic activity and tax policy. There was plenty of grandiose language
in the Declaration of Independence about the human condition, but the
founding generation had no dreams of a post-scarcity world or the
universal brotherhood of man. The end game for liberalism was to leave
people to live their lives in peace. Liberalism was about freeing men
from their duties to grandiose schemes of other men.

The Jacobins, of course, had grand notions about the universal rights of
man, but that was all about the individual. Sure, a political system
that respects the natural rights of man would be fairer and more equal
than monarchy, but that does not necessarily lead to some great
advancement in the human condition. A free society of equals would be
free to just live mundane lives as farmers and merchants. More
important, they have no duty to advance mankind past his present
condition.

That’s the funny thing about the last half of the 20th century. The
progress of the two great competing ideological systems was in the
opposite direction. The idealistic communists gave up their big dreams
and focused on the basics of providing material goods for their
societies. The practical minded liberals slowly abandoned the simple
goals of individual liberty and started to dream of spreading democracy
to every corner of the globe. Liberalism emerged as the great dram of
mankind.

At the end of the Cold War, it was largely understood that central
planning and communism were unworkable as economic policies. Only a fool
would compare the material results of communism to capitalism and think
the former had any hope of competing with the latter. As Fukuyama
explained, the West has reached the end point of its intellectual
development. Liberal democracy had triumphed over all competing
ideologies and was now the only moral option.

You can probably write a very long book on how liberalism evolved,
developed and matured in its struggles from the Magna Carta to the end
of the Cold War. Maybe the starting date would be the English Civil War.
It first triumphed over aristocracy, then fascism and finally communism.
In the end it matured from a simple desire to set men free to pursue
their own interests and individual potential into a fully developed
dream of setting mankind free from his natural condition.

That would be a great book if it were written in the first years after
the Cold War, but the decades since have revealed something else about
liberal democracy. That is those grand dreams are nothing more than
decorations. Having reached the post-scarcity world dreamed of by the
communists, western liberals look around and see that there is nothing
to inspire them. There is no moving past the human condition into some
next phase of man. There’s just work and consumption.

The last few decades can best be described as a thrashing about by the
American ruling class and to a lesser degree the minor ruling classes of
Europe, looking for a reason to exist. Having conquered nature and want,
defeated all ideological challengers, liberal democracy looks around
asking what was the point? If the end of the long cycle of history was
simply work and consumption, why did mankind make the journey and
struggle to get to this point in its development?

Of course, it must be noted that the high point of communism was
citizens lining up at stores only to find the shelves mostly bare. It
was order being imposed by neighbors spying on neighbors. The great
triumph of liberal democracy is now people lined up outside stores that
are increasingly short of product. Like the communists, the liberals now
rely in neighbors to spy on neighbors and the fearful to bully the
skeptical. There’s no getting around the fact that America is no longer
a free society.

Maybe in the end this is the fate of all ideology. The communists
started with lofty goals and dreams of transcending the human condition.
They descended to the greatly reduced goal of making enough stuff to
survive. Liberal democracy starting with the practical goal of
individual liberty, got the ideology bug and began to dream of a world
beyond the human condition. It too is now collapsing into less lofty
goals, like maintaining the basics of civil society and material
existence.

Perhaps the great lesson of the long intellectual development known as
the Enlightenment will be that the danger to humanity is the ideologue.
Genuine human progress is the systematic removal of those who dream of
something beyond the human condition. True enlightenment is the embrace
of man’s humanity and his innate desire to work, enjoy the fruits of his
labor and spend his short existence with friends and family. Human
progress is simply the embrace of humanity.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
