---
title: "And Don’t Come Back!"
date: "2020-06-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20796"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20796"
---

In another highly coordinated effort, the tech oligarchs ritualistically
banned a bunch of people and groups from their platforms yesterday. Of
note, Reddit banned the Donald Trump fan club from their site. YouTube
banned American Renaissance and Stefan Molyneux from their platform.
Something called “Twitch” banned the Trump campaign team from its site.
All of these people and groups have been accused of impiety by the
people in charge of public morality, so they have been punished.

Of course, many of the proscribed have responded according to their role
in the great morality play of the Left. They found somewhere on social
media to express their outrage and hurt over being kicked off a
left-wing platform. There were the denunciations of left-wing hypocrisy
and the calls for free speech. The chorus played its role, amplifying
the outrage of the proscribed. At this point, the only interesting thing
about these rituals is the targets they select for punishment.

Reddit, for example, made an example of the TERF community. Those would
be radical feminists who exclude men in sundresses. They were purged for
the crime of accepting biological reality. Stefan Molyneux, who has
refashioned himself into a street corner philosopher, was banned from
YouTube allegedly for advocating violence. In reality, he was selected
because YouTube has run out of popular heretics. They have so broken
their site that even heretics are losing interest in it.

The important part of this is not the targets, but the ritual. As you
see with Molyneux, they will claim a milquetoast libertarian actor is
Hitler in order to fill the role in the morality tale. It’s not
important that he is not actually Hitler. What matters is they have
someone to parade around as a heretic on whom they can ritualistically
heap their scorn and then chase from their midst. For all it matters,
these recently proscribed people could be macramé enthusiasts or bird
watchers.

That’s what people outside the halls of the one true faith fail to
grasp. The people deciding to ban Jared Taylor spent no time listening
to what he has to say or examining his videos for violations of their
morality codes. They are physically incapable of being around those who
dispute the tenets of the faith. Jared is just a blasphemer, an agent of
the great evil against which they fight. The same is true in varying
degrees for all of the people thrown off these left-wing sites.

For the people doing this, the only time they bother to listen to the
damned is after the fact, when the condemned are complaining about their
banning. Progressivism is a sadistic faith, fueled by the suffering of
its enemies. You can be sure the various committees and working groups
tasked with finding this round of heretics were replaying
<a href="https://twitter.com/StefanMolyneux/status/1277720270304919552"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Moly’s Twitter performance</a>
over and over as they gratified themselves. He was playing his role like
a legendary thespian at the peak of his ability.

It is the biggest problem facing those opposed to the new religion.
Instead of accepting it as a religion, opponents insist on imposing
their own sense of logic and reason onto the actions of these people.
“They are banning us because they are afraid of what we have to say!”
No, the people conducting these rituals have no idea what someone like
Molyneux says in his videos. He could be speaking in tongues for all
they care. He is not a person to them. He is a character in their
morality play.

The rock heads and cranks on this side will dispute this, because that
is what makes them rock heads and cranks. They will keep imposing their
sensibilities on the other side, despite generations of evidence to the
contrary. Worse yet, they will insist that these left-wing platforms are
vital ground. We have to exhaust ourselves fighting to get on these
platforms. Of course, that just means a steady supply of people ready to
play the role of the damned in the next morality play.

The proper response to all of this is to simply leave these platforms.
The argument is that these platforms are the public square, but that’s
not true. No one goes on Twitter to have their mind changed about
anything. People go on Twitter to have their opinions confirmed by
people they already like. The same is true of YouTube. If you really
enjoy Moly’s performances, you can always go to [his
site](https://www.freedomain.com/). This is how it worked up until about
ten years ago. It’s how this site works.

Further, the proper response to de-platforming efforts is to ignore
them. When you go public and moan about the attacks, the Left is
exhilarated. They see the suffering as a trophy that keeps cheering for
them. Sure, it is no fun to go through. No one wants to waste time
moving servers or changing domain registrars, but publicly complaining
about it does not make the burden lighter. It just encourages the people
doing it to keep looking for fresh victims. It stimulates them.

Ultimately, our side joins the fight when we finally wake-up and accept
the other side for what it is. The Left are not reasonable people. They
are not operating from a set of fixed rules that can be mastered by an
outsider. There is no beating them at their own game or on their
platforms. These are evil people who are only motivated by the suffering
of decent people. They feed on your frustration and your complaints.
When you engage with them, you are giving them oxygen

The way forward is to reduce the number of contacts between them and us.
Instead of going inside the walls of their domains to be fed upon like
cattle, make them scale the walls of our domains. No, that does not mean
building a new internet. It just means not going onto their platforms.
Sure, they can attack Molyneux by going after his registrar or hosting
company, but that is time consuming and often futile. It makes them work
hard for the dopamine rush of tormenting the condemned.

That’s ultimately the battle we face. There’s no defeating the Left in
the conventional sense of a fight. Instead, the goal is to exhaust them.
Since a big part of what sustains them is the attention they get from
their victims, not giving them that attention increases their cost of
operation. The trouble is, many on our side is like a battered wife.
They can only feel love when they are being pummeled. They have been
conditioned to take the beating and then come back asking for more.

When our side sits it out, the results are impressive. Look at the
riots. The Left was sure these riots would draw out “right-wing
extremists” they could then use as a foil. When that did not happen,
they tried inventing them, but failed to make it work. It’s hard to
convince people that the black guys beating a white guy with a
skateboard are actually white nationalists. It just underscored the fact
that the only people in the streets are left-wing agitators and their
pets from the vibrant community.

Not to put too fine a point on it, but that is why they have started
banning people from their platforms again. The riots have been a
terrible disaster for them. They fully expected a dozen
Charlottesville-style events, with lots of bad guys they could parade
around on their media platforms. Instead they got semi-literate savages
and potheads claiming part of Seattle as a new country. This should be
the model for all future interaction with the Left. Engage them in the
shadows, never in public.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
