---
title: "Conventionally Speaking"
date: "2020-08-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21115"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21115"
---

Political conventions are probably the dumbest aspect of American
politics, especially in the modern technological era. Half a century
ago, they still made some sense from a logistical perspective. Getting
all the national and local players together in the same physical place
was the only way to maintain the network. It was also a television event
that gave the party a chance to make their pitch. They also brought in
the donors for the grip and grin sessions that seem to work on rich
people.

Today, the old-style convention looks increasingly like a pointless
relic. The only people who need to meet in person these days to talk
politics are dissidents and that’s because of the pogroms against white
activists. The people in charge can avail themselves to all the modern
technology of the day. As far as a television event, the convention
looks ridiculous to most modern people. It’s like watching a movie from
the 1970’s, where people are using pay phones and wearing suits on
airplanes.

The parties stick with them mostly because politics is a risk-adverse
game. These days, every campaign has pollsters and consultants telling
the campaign what to do. Inevitably, they say the same things over and
over, as that is the low risk strategy for the consultants and
pollsters. If the campaign does the normal stuff and fails, the
candidate gets the blame. If it succeeds, then it proves the tried and
true methods work. That’s why the parties stick with convention format.

As silly as it all is, the convention does offer some insights into what
is happening behind the scenes of the party. That was clear on day one
of the Democratic virtual convention now in day three. The people hired
to produce it were not creative wiz-kids given the challenge of creating
the first virtual convention. Instead, they hired people who make
corporate videos and infomercials. Anyone who has had to consume
corporate video saw the fingerprints on day one.

That tells us the people running the DNC and the Biden campaign are just
as old in their thinking as the people running the party. Joe Biden
(77), Nancy Pelosi (80) and Chuck Schumer (69) hit middle age before the
typical voter was born. They were set in their ways before the first ISP
came into operation. These are analog people living in a digital age, by
avoiding anything new and different. This virtual convention was made
for people who put their face right up to the screen in a Zoom session.

Thus far, the convention tells us that there is a serious rift between
the young woke crowd and the old guard. The choice of speakers to
highlight is the tell. They featured the genocidal Andrew Cuomo and
Obama’s Wookie on the first night. They gave Bernie Sanders a few
minutes and a canned speech. The Bernie wing is not happy, which is why
they are rioting in their strongholds, so using the first night to
remind them who is still in charge of the party was a message.

Maybe the most amusing part of the show thus far was the angry guy
routine done by Andrew Cuomo. He did his thing sitting at a desk, like a
corporate CEO addressing the company by video conference after a big
round of layoffs. The point was to be inspirational in a tough time, but
instead it was angry and bitter. The only thing missing was a threat
that if morale did not pick up, the beatings would continue. Cuomo is
the argument in favor of sending the sons of politicians into exile.

It’s also clear the party bosses don’t understand what they have
unleashed with the anti-white rhetoric. They did the old corporate
diversity crap on the first night, but it was actually worse than the
corporate diversity training videos. It did not address anything that
has been happening for the last few months. The use of the Buffalo
Springfield song would have gone over well with the 70-plus crowd, but
by that point it was well past lights out in the nation’s rest homes.

Another indication of the general detachment from reality is the use of
Republican turncoats in this convention. The idea is to use these
faithless finks to show undecideds that even the Republicans are
abandoning their man. Most people unsure about voting for Trump already
hate the GOP. That’s why they tend to sit out elections. Trotting out
Colin Powell and John Kasich just reminds them that they hate the same
people who hate Donald Trump. It has the opposite of the intended
effect.

Another insight that can be gleaned from this thing is the party is
deeply worried by the overall lack of enthusiasm for their guy. The <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/remote-democratic-convention-drew-18-7-million-viewers-on-first-night-11597779460"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">first night drew</a> roughly
half the audience they drew in 2016. The party then ordered their media
organs to <a href="https://news.trust.org/item/20200818234526-gh6cp"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">bump the numbers</a> up in
subsequent stories. In this age of lies, we can expect the media to
claim the Biden speech was watched by every human on earth, but the
reality is this thing and his campaign are not all that interesting to
people.

Now, it should be pointed out that the lock downs have broken all the
normal patterns of behavior with regards to media consumption. The
sports leagues are experiencing their bad television numbers. People
working at home are no longer talking about sports and TV shows with
co-workers. There are no live audiences, so the social proof has been
removed from sports. This convention may be suffering from the same
thing. People are disconnecting from mass media due to the lock downs.

Putting that aside, what comes through in this convention is that
conventional politics has reached the end of the road. The Democrats
will soon be the brown party and their cries of racism will sound even
more absurd than they do today. Whatever replaces the Republicans will
be the white party and calls for constitutional principles will sound as
absurd as the whining about white privilege. This convention and its
reliance on 50-year old pop culture references is the end of the end.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
