---
title: "Strange Days"
date: "2020-07-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20849"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20849"
---

Way back in the time before corona, it was conventional wisdom that
shutting down the economy would have dire consequences for the economy.
Whether you were on the panic side or the skepticism side, you were sure
that locking down the economy was going to be bad for the economy. The
stock market losing a third of its value in a week seemed to confirm it.
No matter the truth of the virus, the consequences was going to be an
unprecedented economic depression.

Here we are four months on and the world does not look like anyone
imagined it when this all started. The promised bodies in the streets
never materialized. The virus has thus far been a sever flu season hyped
up by mass media. The promised depression has not made an appearance.
The streets are still mostly empty during the work day and many
businesses are still closed. Those that are open have all sorts of
restrictions and they seem to have fewer customers.

What we don’t have is people out banging their pots and pans demanding
the government do something about the economy. A lifetime ago a handful
of white people showed up at state capitols demanding the end of the
lock downs, but that soon gave way to swarms of blacks and Antifa
promising to burn the cities. Otherwise, the productive portion of
society seems to have gone back to sleep. Those working from home, work
from home and those not working stay home.

<a
href="https://www.marketwatch.com/story/jobless-claims-tell-us-30-million-people-are-unemployed-but-many-doubt-its-that-bad-2020-07-08"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The weekly jobless claims</a>
say that 30 million Americans are currently unemployed, but no one seems
to notice or believe it. Of course, no one should believe the official
statistics from the government and other sources. The only thing true
about these numbers is they are constantly revised. We do know that 30
million people are still collecting unemployment benefits at the moment,
so at least that many people are not working, but would like to be
working.

The virus and the economy are a good example of partisanship. The panic
crowd, which overlaps considerably with the anti-Trump, Hamilton
listening set, was so sure the virus was a plague sent by the gods
because of Trump they are convinced the hospitals are overrun and people
are dying in the streets. Similarly, the skeptics of modern economics
are so sure the system cannot last, they believe we are in a grinding
depression that will explode into civil unrest at any moment.

What we are living through right now is probably one of those times when
the partisan framework gives way to a new partisan framework. Perhaps in
liberal democracy there needs to be a regular molting of the old
partisan skin so a new one can emerge and refresh the debate. After all,
forty years ago, the Left was endlessly going on about free speech and
the dangers of corporate media. Today, it is the Right that champions
speech and opposes corporate media.

Putting that aside, what we are seeing in the economy runs counter to
pretty much everything we have been told for generations. The government
should not be able to manufacture trillions of dollars without causing
hyperinflation. This was something everyone, Left and Right, knew was
true not so long ago. Here we are with the US debt at 23 Trillion, a
number so large no one can imagine it. So large, no one bothers discuss
it anymore. No one cares about the debt.

Similarly, we have been told for generations that the US savings rate
was so low that the typical American could not afford to skip a
paycheck. Small business was so strapped it could not go a month without
business. We’re four months into the lock downs and we don’t have soup
lines. Instead, Americans are paying down credit card debt at a record
clip. In fact, credit card debt is now the <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/plunge-consumer-credit-continues-americans-repay-record-amounts-credit-card-debt"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">lowest</a> it has been in over
a decade and headed for unprecedented lows.

One driver of the credit card debt decline is the collapse in spending.
This makes sense, given those empty streets and closed shops. Still,
people worried about money tend to hoard cash, rather than pay down
debt. You can always tell the credit card company to go screw, but you
can’t do that with the landlord, the mortgage company or the grocery
store. Contrary to conventional economic wisdom, Americans are choosing
to pay down their debts right now.

The weirdness in the economy is just one item. No new movies or
television have come out since the panic and no one seems to care very
much. Sports entertainment has been shuttered and no one seems to care.
All of the spring and summer youth sports have been cancelled. This time
of year, kids into baseball, lacrosse, soccer and big-time football
would normally be in summer leagues. Their parents would be toting them
around the country. None of that is happening.

You can probably spend the better part of day listing the things that
used to be a fixed part of daily life that are now gone. More important,
they are gone and no one seems to notice or care. Talk to people with
kids in the summer sports and they will tell you the kids have quickly
adjusted. They are doing other things. Parents with small kids are
quickly adjusting to life at home with the kids around all day. Kid
sounds are the background music of Zoom sessions.

The point of all this is we are like people who have been dumped out of
their canoe in the rapids and we are now being swept down river. All
sorts of things are happening to us and around us, but we have no way of
getting our bearings. The thought of getting back into canoe has long
passed. Now it is just a matter of surviving each minute until the river
calms or we bash our head into a boulder. We have no perspective and no
way to gain perspective until we reach flat water.

That means we really have no idea where this will all end. Maybe that’s
why there is a strange calm over daily life. Maybe that’s why people are
instinctively paying down debt and hunkering down. It may not make total
sense, but in uncertain times, simplifying the household finances
becomes a point of stability. Again, it is hard to know, as we are all
just being swept along. Still, the one thing we can know is that we are
being swept along by forces outside our control.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
