---
title: "The Management Problem"
date: "2020-10-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21522"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21522"
---

**Media Note:** I will be on the
<a href="https://dlive.tv/theralphretort" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Killstream</a> this Wednesday to celebrate the life and
times of Abraham Lincoln. The show starts somewhere around 9:00 PM
eastern and runs for a couple of hours. Are you into midgets? Westerns?
Maybe midget westerns? Well, I watched
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Terror_of_Tiny_Town"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Terror of Tiny Town</a> and
posted a review to my <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">SubscribeStar page</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A defining feature of the managerial state is that it creates problems
that require it to then fashion complex solutions to solve. A group of
experts from the managerial class made some reform, which then created
unintended problems. The solution is to draft a new set of experts from
the managerial class to solve this new problem. Inevitably, this creates
new problems and the process continues into forever. A good current
example of this is what to do with the tech monopolies.

The reason we have tech monopolies is Congress drafted laws that allowed
the firms to turn into behemoths. In gratitude, these firms then
showered their favorite politicians with cash, in order to avoid getting
the Microsoft treatment. This allowed the firms to get bigger and turn
the thank you cash into threats. It is not unrealistic to think these
firms are now able and willing to blackmail politicians with information
gleaned from their social media, e-mail and mobile devices.

The starting point for this problem is Section 230 of the Communications
Decency Act, passed in 1996. Section 230 says that “No provider or user
of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the publisher or
speaker of any information provided by another information content
provider.” This means that on-line intermediaries cannot be held
accountable for what passes through their network or platform.
Specifically, the intent was to protect them from libel claims.

At the time, this made sense for two reasons. One was the government did
not want the internet service providers walling off the internet as a
collection of private domains that they policed as a private space. They
wanted the internet to be open. Second, they were told that it was
practically impossible to monitor what was posted on-line in real-time,
so it would cripple this new industry to treat them as publishers. To
let the industry grow, it had to be the wild west on-line.

So far, so good, but like everything else done by the technocrats, they
created new problems they could solve at some future date. This immunity
from libel claims, for example, has made it possible for the big social
media companies to operate as regulators of the public square. It has
allowed domain registrars to violate individual rights under the cloak
of immunity. Even banks are getting into the act, claiming their web
portals are covered under section 230.

This brings up another feature of managerial state. It is a strange
version of Chesterton’s gate that is baked into their thinking. Once
their creation is set loose, no one ever looks back to understand why
they created it and what it was intended to do. It just becomes this
thing that sprang from nothingness, like the organic institutions for
which they have so little respect. We see this with Section 230. It’s
just this thing that is either treated as a force of nature or a thing
that must be destroyed.

The thing is, much of what ails us could be solved by simply going back
to the original intent of the law. The tech companies argued that they
should not be treated as publishers because they could not regulate what
was on their platform and most important, they did not want to regulate
the content. They just wanted to act as facilitators that allowed people
to come together in the public square. It was not their job or intention
to tell anyone what they could say on-line.

Right there is a solution to much of what is happening. If Twitter, for
example, is regulating speech on its platform, then it is no longer
covered by Section 230, because it is clearly able and willing to act as
a publisher. We call a dog a dog because it has all the characteristics
of a dog. Twitter is a publisher because it now has the vital
characteristics of a publisher. Applying the original logic of the law
to Twitter means it either stops censuring people or it transforms into
something else.

Another simple remedy that exists in the law is property ownership. It
is well established that when ownership of something is in doubt, the
law starts at the creator and then establishes a chain of custody.
Stolen goods for example, are returned to the last person who can
establish ownership, either through a purchase agreement or proof there
are the originator of the item. If you made it, it is yours until you
agree to sell or gift it to another person, who then becomes the legal
owner.

If we treated your information the same way we treat all other property
in the western world, the tech companies would no longer be allowed to
harvest this information without your permission. They would have to get
your permission every time they sold your information. Most people, of
course, would refuse and the business models of these firms would more
from rentier to retail. They would have to charge you for the service
they provide, like every other business.

Way back in the 2016 election, the liberal pundit Mickey Kaus observed
that the Republican party could have cut Trump off early if they just
adopted some of his ideas, especially on immigration. If they more
gracefully advocated for some limits on immigration and maybe a new
attitude on trade, Trump would have lost. They did not, so we will never
know, but the implication was that they refused to go down that road
because nefarious forces behind the scenes were preventing it.

We get similar argument about the tech monopolies. Congress is now
[conveniently
split](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/06/technology/lawmakers-big-tech-power-bipartisan.html)
on how to address the problem. Bill Bar has
[initiated](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/23/technology/justice-department-tech-antitrust.html)
what will no doubt be a glacial process to file anti-trust claims
against the tech giants. We’ll all be dead long before any of these turn
into results. The assumption is that it is all just a show, while behind
the scenes the pols bath in cash from the tech giants. It is certainly a
useful and satisfying conspiracy theory, but it is mostly wrong.

The truth is, the managerial state turns the ruling class into children,
always living in the moment and searching for a present distraction.
Instead of taking the prudent and mature view of the problem, tracing it
back to its origin and then simply applying the law as intended, they
turn it into story time. In this story, they are once again cast as the
strong female lead, taking on the sinister bad guys. You go girl. In
order to defeat the bad guys, they must create a super complicated
solution.

In many areas, this is not much of a concern. The issue of tech
censorship is one that can largely solve itself. In order for Twitter to
exist, they need the state to keep their competitor out of business, but
those same children playing make believe in response to the problem are
unable to maintain their end of the bargain. People will find a way to
meet on-line and exchange ideas. The result will not be ideal or even
very good, but it will allow people to communicate on-line.

This is not happening with important stuff like building roads and
keeping the hospitals open. All over the country, technocrats agree that
we need more new housing, so builder need more power to build
developments. That results in the need for more road and more schools,
but building roads is boring, so the children of the managerial state
use their time dreaming up smart communities and smart transportation
plans. They get to pretend they are smart and popular while the rest of
us sit in traffic jams.

The observation about bureaucracy is it becomes sclerotic over time. The
people inside the system stop caring about the purpose of the system.
Something similar happens with the managerial state. The people inside
become hyper-educated toddlers, unable to grasp the concept of time.
They spend their days trying to impress each other with their highly
complex public policy solutions. Governance becomes a giant parlor game
where the more ridiculous the idea, the more the children cheer.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="hKp3TmIqjDDCvtiY7TmBtg==cb75JU3Uf4ulWuqdKtrDprz+xaj89OXe4sFYl3wJCsnDIIPeDM0b9khYKNtIo+BS0yc"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="1tgQyHMehHaKX47pt3wRzw==cb7l4Ts7QUXujAbPyx/vgM1T9ecL00K3luvmSpXVMOF4GR9kUQ9juq5FwIT+g0By084"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
