---
title: "The 2020 Predictions"
date: "2020-01-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19473"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19473"
---

The best thing about the future is you can say whatever you like about
it without fear of being wrong, because it has not happened yet. That
is, unless you are foolish enough to remind people of your past
predictions. Even though none of us can see around corners, we like to
imagine what the coming year holds. Even if it is just for amusement,
making predictions at this time of year is a fun exercise. So, once
again here are what the omen in Lagos are telling us about the coming
year.

The forecast for the Democrat primary is a three cushion shot. First,
Buttigieg pulls the shocker and wins the Iowa caucus. Sanders comes in
second. Biden and Warren both fail to reach expectations as minor
candidates nibble away at their support. This carries into New
Hampshire, where Sanders wins, but Buttigieg comes in second. This makes
him the darling of the cat lady media. The Warren campaign is
effectively over, but she staggers on. Biden plans to make his stand in
South Carolina.

People forget that Sanders gave Clinton a run for her muumuu in the
Nevada caucus in 2016, despite the party cheating like mad on her
behalf. Sanders will win the Nevada caucus this time, but Buttigieg will
come in second with Biden a close third. This will setup the big
showdown in South Carolina. Biden, having been weakened by three bad
showings will see his black support slip. The result will be a three way
jumble, which will turn the race into a Buttigieg versus Sanders battle.

This will be the great shredding of the Democrat coalition. Blacks are
not all that fond of Sanders or Buttigieg. The remaining working class
whites are not fond of these two either. The donors who run both parties
will not want to see Sanders top the ticket, so they will swing hard for
Buttigieg. What will become clear to the various tribes of the Democrat
party is they are not all that important to the party. They will learn
what conservatives are starting to learn about the Republicans…

The chaos of the Democrat primary will have one benefit and that will be
a lightening up of the tech censorship. They will be much too concerned
with the primary to go troll hunting for blasphemers. There’s also the
fact that a lot was learned by the good guy in the great banning wars.
Just as people learned to communicate bad thoughts during the Soviet
Union, dissidents are now adopting language and postures that allow bad
ideas to be transmitted in spite of speech codes….

The decline of Conservative Inc. will become acute as National Review
begins to look for a white knight to keep the publication going. The
fact is, the readership of that publication is being decimated by the
actuarial tables. The typical reader is now over 70 years old. They
never recovered from 2016 and more important, they have not been able to
find their footing in the age of Trump. Like the rest of Conservative
Inc., National Review is a legacy operations with no natural
constituency…

In sports, the Premiere League will have its first trans player…

Not only will Brexit finally happen, it will be something closer to the
hard exit that the usual suspects waved around to scare people. What
will become obvious to the EU and Boris Johnson is that a clean break is
the best. A new trade agreement will be hammered out similar to what the
US currently has with the EU. At the same time, a free trade deal will
be quickly negotiated between the UK and the US. The Anglosphere will
move one step closer to becoming an economic bloc…

Nancy Pelosi will send the articles of impeachment over to the Senate on
the agreement that there will be no actual trial. The right thing for
the GOP to do is have a public trial and let Team Trump make their
arguments about the seditious plot and the Democrat connections to
Ukrainian corruption. This would destroy the Democrats in the 2020
election and give the GOP a shot at winning back the House. It would be
a public relations catastrophe for the political establishment.

That’s why McConnell will never allow that to happen. Instead, it will
be a closed door session, where they do nothing, then a public vote.
There will be a few GOP traitors like Mitt Romney who will vote to
convict, but otherwise it will fail. This will give the Democrats enough
cover with their base, but also give the GOP leverage to force Trump
into concessions. They have several amnesty bills, for example, ready
for his signature. Impeachment will be good for The Swamp…

In January, Bill Barr will announce that he is looking to some things
about the FBI scandal, but is waiting on yet another inspector general
report. In March he will remind everyone he is still looking into the
FBI issue. In June rumors will float around about Durham doing
something. By fall, the election will require putting all of it aside as
that would be seen as an unnecessary distraction. The point being is
that nothing will come of the Durham investigation. The whole thing gets
broomed…

Finally, the big item of the year is the election. Trump will be running
from behind again, but this time he will not be sneaking up on anyone.
Pete Buttigieg will make sure to sashay around the Rust Belt promising
everyone a fabulous economy. While having a twink president of clown
world would make sense, the result this time will be similar to last
time. Trump wins a slim majority in the popular vote, as blacks stay
home. In one of life’s ironies, the racists are saved by the black man…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
