---
title: "The Cost Of Profit"
date: "2020-03-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20156"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20156"
---

Every businessman understands that every dollar of revenue that comes in
has with it a cost required to earn it. If the business provides a
service, then the biggest cost of sales is the labor required to provide
the service. If the business sells a physical item, then the cost of
making or acquiring the item is the big driver. There are indirect costs
like rents and administrative expenses, but the starting place for any
business is the cost of sales, as that is what ultimately determines
profits.

There is another cost that is important, sometimes the most important,
that does not show up in the financials. That is the cost of profit.
This is an intangible cost. What unpleasant things do you have to do in
order to make a profit? Maybe you have to be terrible to your employees
or tolerate nasty customers. You can make a nice living running a pawn
shop, but most people don’t think it is worth having to deal with the
sorts of people, who avail themselves of the pawn shop.

As a society, this concept is easier to quantify, or at the minimum
articulate, as a society has a shared morality. There is an agreed upon
set of things that a society wants to minimize and a set of things it
promotes. It may be better for the economy to rely upon slave labor in
certain kinds of agriculture, but the moral cost of slavery is too high
to contemplate such a policy. One reason manufacturing was shipped
abroad is the cost of the pollution and the aesthetics was too high for
our rulers.

The point is that certain types of economic activity may be lucrative
for the people in that business or for the economy as a whole, but the
intangible cost is too high. It is not just the moral cost either. There
is the cost of risk. To allow certain types of lending, for example,
puts the credit system at risk, so we forbid it. The cost of profit can
also be the long term risk it poses the society, which generally means
the cost that will be imposed on future generations when those risks
become real costs.

A good example is the very lucrative basis trade popular with hedge
funds, where they buy US Treasuries, while selling equivalent
derivatives contracts. There is a small difference in price between the
two, but when done in volume and with cheap credit, the profit to the
hedge fund can be enormous. This is great for the private investors in
the hedge funds, but it has huge risks for the economy. The <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/confirmed-fed-bailed-out-hedge-funds-facing-basis-trade-disaster"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">recent bailout</a> by the
Federal Reserve is a good example of socializing the cost of profit.

This is just one example of economic activity that is profitable to the
people doing it and good for those GDP numbers. It’s also high risk and
therefore has an unacceptable cost for the profit gained. Throughout the
financial system we see high risk strategies that can be highly
profitable and serve some important purpose, like lowering the cost of
borrowing, but bring with them unacceptable risks to the system.
Socializing the cost profit through bailouts does not make it go away.

Another example of how the cost of profit works in the financial system
<a
href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-capitalone-cftc-ex/exclusive-capital-one-got-cftc-waiver-after-oil-price-plunge-increased-swap-exposure-sources-idUSKBN21D1BC"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">is this story</a> from Reuters
about Capital One. This is the bank that peddles high interest rate
credit cards to poor people and non-whites. They can specialize in high
risk borrowers, because they charge mafia-esque interest rates. That
covers the cost of collecting from deadbeats and the inevitable
defaults. It turns out another one of their activities was gambling in
the commodities markets, namely the energy markets.

Now, the obvious question is why is a credit card company that preys on
dumb people playing at the high stakes tables in the commodities casino?
Betting commodities is like playing at the baccarat tables in Monte
Carlo. Actually, the odds are better in the casino, as the odds of
winning are just 1.23% lower than the odds of winning a hand. The
answer, of course, is the potential profit for the bank was huge, just
as long as energy process never fell below a certain level, like they
have recently.

As American states lost the will to directly tax their people,
especially their rich people, they turned to indirect ways to fund
government. One is the legalization of gambling, especially state-owned
casinos. Since every state is in the gambling racket, a new type of
casino has evolved. This is one with a grand shopping mall and Potemkin
town center attached, so people can dine and socialize. The idea is to
get everyone under one roof in order to encourage more consumption.

This model is the symbol of modern America. Our economy is a massive
shopping mall, an international bazaar operated by traders from around
the globe. Attached to it is a massive casino called the financial
system in which the profits from the bazaar are wagered on increasingly
high stakes bets. It has become so unstable that the landlord, the
Federal Reserve and central government, has to keep stepping in to keep
everyone afloat. It is a high tech, high stakes palace economy.

This is very profitable for the nation’s rich people, which get to enjoy
luxury unimaginable just a couple generations ago. Even Louis XIV could
not have rode out a pandemic aboard <a
href="https://www.marketwatch.com/story/as-coronavirus-ravages-the-us-media-mogul-david-geffen-observes-a-sunset-from-his-400-million-superyacht-im-hoping-everybody-is-staying-safe-2020-03-28"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">his floating castle</a>.
Meanwhile, the cost of such luxury will be his fellow citizens (does he
consider them his fellow citizens?)
<a href="https://twitter.com/andrewrush/status/1244657465859457024"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">lining up for miles</a> to get
food distributed by the local food bank. The price of such profit in
terms of risk and inequality is simply too high to tolerate much longer.

In times of want, people are forced to think hard about their
priorities. The same is true of a people facing a crisis. The Great
Madness over the plague is going to send the economy into a depression.
The West in general, but America in particular, is going to have to
decide if the cost of profit, the cost of this high stakes casino
economy, is truly worth it. Is this how we want to live?  For what shall
it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, but lose his soul?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
