---
title: "The Virtue Of Impeachment"
date: "2020-01-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19565"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19565"
---

According to official media, the House Democrats are finally ready to
send the articles of impeachment over to the Senate for a trial.
Assuming it actually happens, the trial will be a circus to allow the
various crackpots and show ponies to perform for the cable news
audiences. Everyone will pretend it is serious until the ratings come in
from the polling operations and then the show will close. The only
people who think otherwise are the cranks and weirdos on the Left.

That said, the inner party has permitted this charade to happen for more
than just theatrical reasons. They have an election show scheduled for
this year and that will provide plenty of entertainment. The Iowa
Caucuses are a little over two weeks away and the New Hampshire primary
is three weeks away. That’s more than enough entertainment to keep
people from noticing too much. The question then is why are they
bothering with this straight-to-video impeachment show.

Every society has certain codes of conduct that may or may not be
formalized in writing, but are accepted by everyone. These codes may be
amplified or prioritized by personal codes of conduct, but the general
morality is accepted as the public morality. In many cases, it is
assumed the morality of one’s society is a universal morality that
applies to all times and places, but that is a confusion in terms. Codes
of conduct that apply in narrow conditions are different from general
social codes.

In the West, public morality says the people should be sovereign and
pick representatives the people occupying public offices. The will of
the people should be expressed in the law. In the Arab world, public
morality is defined by the Koran, not Enlightenment philosophy.
Therefore, government should be run by righteous Muslims, according to
the rules of Islam. These are different codes of conduct, not
expressions of a universal morality, like the prohibition against
murder.

In current year America, the ruling class is now fully detached from the
society over which it rules, so it has begun to acquire its own moral
code. You see this in the Democrat primary where candidates are running
around preaching about the plight of transvestites or lecturing on white
privilege. To normal people, these are bizarre fetishes that have to
salience. Inside the ruling class they have become important moral
signifiers, rooted in the common morality of the ruling class.

That brings us back to impeachment. The official narrative says he has
been impeached because the political class thinks he violated his oath
of office in his dealings with Ukraine. The official alternative
narrative is the Democrats did this out of spite over losing the 2016
election. Those are the two sides of the official sandwich regarding
impeachment. Within that framing, both sides are expected to scream at
one another through the proxy of cable news programs.

Then there is the official outsider view that says this is part of some
grand chess strategy over the seditious plot conducted by the security
agencies. The inner party is using impeachment to stall the
investigation into the that and the many other corrupt projects during
the Obama years. While there may be some truth to this, it is clear that
Bill Barr is willing and able to cover all of this up on his own. Still,
there may be some people in the party who would like the assurance that
the caper is properly buried.

There may be another reason why this impeachment thing will not die and
that is the evolving morality of the ruling class. They hate Trump, not
because of what he does or even what he says. They hate him for who he
is and who he represents. He is the rejection of their morality. The
Democrats could make a spending deal with him in a heartbeat, but they
refuse because to do so would legitimize him and what he represents to
them. They simply cannot do that.

If you think about the last four years, the main argument against Trump
by all sides of the political class is that he is lacking in character.
Maybe the point of entry is his womanizing or his crude statements. The
neoconservatives have endlessly lectured on his moral failings. The
Israeli first zealot, Ben Shapiro, has repeatedly said he opposes Trump
on moral grounds, despite giving the Zionists everything they ask. It
turns out that “who they are” is not Trump and what he represents.

The one thing the ruling class gets right is that the American
experiment is unique in world history. No society has tried to combine
extreme egalitarianism, the blank slate and democracy into a civic
religion. Since two legs of that stool are in direct conflict with human
nature, that leaves two choices. One is the traditional radical approach
of exterminating everything that does not fit the new morality. The
other is to redefine one of the legs of the stool to solve the conflict.

What impeachment suggests is the leg in for redefining will be
democracy. The new definition of it will be something like Henry Ford’s
choice of colors. The people can vote for whomever they like, as long as
the candidate comports with the public morality of the ruling class.
Rules will evolve to make sure no one like Trump can every gain access
to official Washington. The political elite will become a closed system
with a unique set of moral codes.

That may be the real point of impeachment. People like Adam Schiff
appear to be insane, but he is just one of the berserkers of the
emerging new morality. The point is not to remove Trump, but to codify
him in such a way that his presence reinforces the new morality. Inside
Washington, impeachment is already a moral signifier. The looming
impeachment show will give the faithful in the ruling elite a chance to
publicly display their virtue to their coreligionists inside the ruling
class.

**Note:** Some have asked why comments end up in moderation. This is the
doings of the spam filter I’m using. It is often triggered by epithets,
certain links and mysterious word combinations. These messages get
flagged as possible spam. Now, in half a dozen years it has blocked over
3.5 million spam messages, so it is trade-off I accept. It means I check
the moderation queue once an hour or so. I approve the real comments and
trash the spam. Otherwise, there is no moderation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
