---
title: "Open And Closed"
date: "2020-01-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19518"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19518"
---

Communities, by definition are closed. The reason for that is a
community is a group of similar people with reciprocal responsibilities
and duties. If you are outside of that community, it means you are not
like the people inside and you do not share their duties and
responsibilities. In order to gain entry to the community, you therefore
must be invited into it by the people inside it. The community has the
sole right to add new members, so the very definition of a community
means it is closed.

Think of it this way. Imagine a community organized around a hobby like
collecting and admiring something, a pop culture item maybe. Each
individual, in pursuing his interest in the hobby runs into others with
the same interest. They begin to form social bonds like shared
experiences and shared relationships with others, who they have met
while pursuing their hobby. They eventually begin to socialize in more
formal settings like swap meets and collectors’ conventions.

What all of these people have in common is an interest in the subject
matter, but what makes them a community is they have developed a shared
interest in enjoying the hobby together. It is these social connections
around their shared interest that makes them a community. In other
words, what makes them a community is the shared social bonds around the
hobby. It’s not just the transaction of participating in the hobby, but
the invisible human connections that defines the community.

In order to join that community, you must have more than just an
interest in the hobby, but also be invited into the social group. You
start showing up at their public events and talking with the members.
Over time, your interest in the hobby helps you make regular
acquaintance with some of the members. In time, they bring you into the
community and you begin to build social bonds. At some point, you go
from being someone who shares their interests to a member of their
community.

In theory, an open community is one that allows anyone to just walk in
and claim membership, as long as they tick some boxes on a form. In
reality, this is not a community at all, as the members have no control
of membership, because they have no control of what defines the
community. The new members can come in and agree to change the terms of
entry, for example. This is because their duty to the community ends
with the last tick on the admission form.

The same logic applies to a society or any human organization. The New
York Yankees get to decide who is and who is not a Yankee. They not only
have rules for membership, but they alone decide membership. A political
or cultural movement follows the same logic. You can be in agreement or
supportive, but you are not a member of it until you are included in it
by the people inside the movement. This is why the Tea Party movement
failed. It had no barriers to entry.

This conflict between open and closed community is at the heart of the
current crisis in the Western world. After the Second World War, it was
argued that a moral society must be tolerant of dissimilar people.
Tolerance for different races, ethnic groups, religions and cultures
slowly became the definition of the moral society. The “open society”
was the goal of social reformers. This explicitly meant that the people
in Western societies no longer had the right to determine membership in
their society.

This is why private discrimination and free association are now
forbidden. If a group of left-handed gingers, with an interest in
Anglo-Saxon poetry, were to form a community around these traits and
interests, they must get permission from the state. That would mean
allowing in girls, non-gingers and maybe even people not suffering the
defect of left-handedness. Otherwise, they’d risk litigation. You see,
in an open society, there can never be barriers to entry. Everything is
open to everyone.

The people who promoted the open society in the last century, and
continue to promote it today, do so as outsiders. They look at the
organic communities and societies of the West and simply see collections
of people. The alien cannot see or understand the reciprocal obligations
and duties that hold the community together. These are only obvious to
the people inside, because it is what holds them together. The outsider
only sees the benefits of membership, not what defines it.

This is the heart of the problem in America. The people with the
greatest influence in the country, the ruling class, are not part of the
communities and cultures that have defined the country. They just see
people, not the many invisible connections that define local community.
For them, the peculiarities that are the outward facing aspects of
community are just items on the cultural buffet. They can sample what
they like, because they have no meaning beyond the superficial.

The result of this is the slow erosion of the social capital that
defines and holds together a community. It is also eroding the invisible
bonds that hold communities together around a shared public culture.
When the public space is made open to everyone, everyone shows up. The
shared reality of public life in America looks like a park after an
open-air concert or a leftist demonstration. It is no longer part of our
shared reality that we own in common. It is not ours.

Compounding the crisis is the fact that the people at the top, the
managerial class, have become self-aware. They now have a sense of
community. More important, their sense of community is the closed
variety. They now think the only way to maintain their community is to
maintain the open society over which they rule. In order for their
community to be tolerated by the open society, they must foster an
intolerance of those questioning the logic and consequences of the open
society

This is how we find ourselves in a world where destructive degenerates
are celebrated as the new cultural norm, but the natural bonds of
organic community are demonized and anathematized as immoral. The only
way for the closed community at the top to maintain the open society
over which they rule is to systematically destroy the normal social
bonds that make organic community possible. The open society is thus a
war on the very conditions that make normal human society possible.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
