---
title: "Morality Politics"
date: "2020-05-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20602"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20602"
---

The simplest definition of politics, regardless of the political system,
is that it is formalized collective action. An individual or group of
individuals gets a group of people to act as a group on some issue. It
may be to lobby the king for some policy, undermine the dictator in some
way or vote for a particular issue. Further, the kernel of all political
action is dissatisfaction. The people doing the organizing are unhappy
with something so they find the like-minded and appeal to their
unhappiness.

As a practical matter, politics is about persuasion. The reformer, for
example, first persuades people that something is broke. Like a good
salesman who creates need in the mind of the prospective customer, the
reformer creates a sense of unhappiness with the status quo in his
target audience. The reformer is, in effect, a chronic complainer,
always talking about his unhappiness with the status quo. His goal is
always to first persuade people that something is broken and needs
fixing.

No all persuasion is the same. if you listen to [this
interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FeEOV6lf6cw&feature=youtu.be&t=4817)
with Ryan Faulk, he frames politics as narrative driven and data driven.
The guys in whatever the now defunct alt-right are calling themselves
these days are narrative driven. They create stories to explain the
important facts of some issue. The other side stacks up the facts and
lets them do the talking. If the other side is wrong about the facts, it
is assumed they must be wrong about the general arguments built on those
facts.

The politics of multiculturalism, if you examine the claims, is
narrative driven, always around a story of group conflict. Blacks, for
example, are in their present condition because of the long oppression
by whites. Feminism is the story of female liberation from the
patriarchy. It’s why the Left falls for rape hoaxes and noose hoaxes so
easily, despite the history of these hoaxes. The hoax fits the narrative
that for them, explains everything about the world and their role in it.

On the other hand, the politics of conventional conservatism is about
facts and ideas, specifically the rejection of the narrative idea. The
Right in America, the conventional Right, that is, remains under the
spell of [Richard M.
Weaver](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ideas_Have_Consequences). As Joe
Sobran put it, they have always been convinced that “their own beliefs
would creep up on the ideas of the Left, slit their throats in the dark,
and stage an intellectual and cultural coup d’état, after which truth
would reign.” Being right is all that matters.

You see some of this in the anti-Semite community. The Holocaust
revisionists are sure that if they just reveal the facts about what
happened to Jews under the Nazis, the narrative of the Holocaust will
collapse. Once that narrative collapses, that which it supports will
collapse with it. Their great enemy, the men with little hats, will then
be routed and driven from the halls of power. This is why they obsess
over it. They believe the facts will conquer their enemy’s narrative.

Ironically, this fact versus narrative dichotomy is most popular and
most well-known because of Jewish conservatives like Ben Shapiro. He is
famous for saying “Facts don’t care about your feelings.” He invests a
lot of time discouraging whites from embracing their own narratives to
counter those on the Left. Instead, they are supposed to embrace facts,
as facts are the magic that will destroy the narrative. Well, not all
narratives, of course, but that’s another issue.

The thing is though, this fact versus narrative construct is a left-wing
creation, at least it serves left-wing ends. Narrative is the predicate
for morality. The reason the Bible is full of stories is moral claims
naturally rise from stories. A good narrative not only encompasses the
known facts, it orders them. These are the important facts of the story,
while these are not essential, there for color and context. It is this
ordering that reinforces and existing morality or creates a new one.

Raw facts are not the basis of morality. As David Hume famously
explained, you cannot get an ought from an is. Indiscriminate killing of
human beings is not wrong because it violates the laws of the natural
world. It is wrong because we say it is wrong or we claim our gods say
it is wrong. Those stories about how the gods punished those who kill
without reason are the basis of a moral code that changes homicide into
murder and prescribes punishments for those who commit murder.

Of course, this is why the fact side of the dichotomy favors the Left.
When Shapiro demands you focus on facts, it is so you do not focus on
the moral framework. Similarly, the Holocaust revisionist obsesses over
granular details of the story, because it is easier than mounting a
moral argument against the prevailing orthodoxy. While it is most
certainly intentional in the former case, in the latter case it is
simply an outgrowth of how right-wing politics were created in the
middle of the last century.

This is also why white identity politics frightens the people in charge.
The right side of the game sees it as a mortal threat to their existence
as a loyal opposition. The left side sees it as an alternative to the
prevailing orthodoxy. White identity politics offers an alternative set
of narratives and as a result, an alternative morality. The Left hammers
away at “facts” about race in an effort to steer identitarians away from
moral considerations and back into the old dichotomy.

These narratives do not rise from nothing. There must be some basis in
reality, but mostly they need people willing to fit reality into the
general narrative. In the case of white identity politics, it means
fitting events into the general themes of peaceful separation, natural
group affinity and so forth. It also means drawing moral conclusions
from events. The current riots, for example, are an example of the
immorality of forcing dissimilar people to live together. Morality
transcends fact and narrative.

An excellent example of this, oddly enough, comes from the Left. The gun
grabbers have been repeating the same demands for generations now. No
matter how many times the facts are presented, they remain steadfast.
The reason is they truly believe gun grabber is a moral imperative. Now
amount of facts and reason will persuade them to abandon their moral
code. Not even an alternative narrative to explain events is tolerated,
as it slams into their morality.

This is why the fact versus narrative dichotomy is false. Both are
codependent in support of the prevailing moral orthodoxy. The narrative
side is constricted by the prevailing moral code to support certain
narratives. It is why, for example, they can so easily abandon one
narrative and adopt its opposite. Free speech, for example. It is also
why the fact side is limited to a list of acceptable facts. Raise the
wrong facts and you are banned to the outer darkness.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
