---
title: "The Positive Alternative"
date: "2020-09-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21182"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21182"
---

One of the predictable things about left-wing political theater is they
will always heroically go to war with the problem they created. After
liberally applying the front lash, they then predict a backlash and
begin to make war on it. They are like the arsonist-fireman, heroically
battling the fires he set. The latest example is over the “colored
revolution” sponsored by the usual suspects around the Occident. In the
UK, they worry this may have <a
href="https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/far-right-black-lives-matter-protests-racism-patriotic-alternative-hope-not-hate-a9672401.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">given a boost to Right</a>.

Apparently, the extreme Left in the UK has noticed that the native
population not only opposes mass immigration, but now they oppose those
ungrateful immigrants rioting in the streets and attacking their hosts.
The daily lectures on white privilege and the crimes and the English
people have not had the intended effect. Instead of committing suicide
to make way for more foreigners, many Brits are starting to think of
their ethnic and national interests, like everyone else.

Familiar to Americans is the way the Left manufacturers its own evidence
to wave around in support of its claims. Hope Not Hate is the British
version of the ADL, backed by the same sorts of people. Their main job
is to make up wild tales about secret invisible Hitler clubs that the
media can then use in their scare stories. These claims are also used to
raise money from the gullible and cynical. It’s how the blood libel
against white people is done in liberal democracy.

That said, Patriotic Alternative is experiencing a surge in interest,
but not for the reasons claimed by the anti-whites. Instead of “becoming
more extreme” they have moderated their tone. Like the US, the UK scene
has been plagued by <a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19494"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the weirdo problem</a>, which
in their case is more like a hooligan problem. Nationalist politics was
more like a rowdy working-class pub than a political movement. As a
result, it was always plagued by ugly images the Left could exploit.

To remedy this, Patriotic Alternative has imposed strict rules of
conduct on its members and has been very clear about it. Mark Collett,
the head of PA, has even booted a longtime friend from his group, when
that friend could not behave himself. Their events are family friendly,
designed to build community among members. Instead of meeting in a pub,
they have a gathering at a park. They organize camping trips and
paintball tournaments that are intended to build friendships.

One result of this approach is it is attracting a better class of
person. The street brawlers are not interested in camping trips. The
middle-class person worried about the future of their children is
interested in that sort of activity. Initially they may not agree with
everything they are hearing, but they are willing to listen, because the
people they see are like their neighbors and coworkers. In fact, they
may be moving into this type of politics because of their neighbors and
coworkers.

It is a good example of how effective politics starts with engaging
people where they are rather than where you want them to be. Like the
US, UK activists have often positioned themselves way outside the main,
making it impossible for them to engage with the typical Brit on their
own terms. Bad optics also makes it easy for the Left to exaggerate the
distance between the typical Brit and the activists. By closing that
gap, PA is able to reach a much broader audience.

This is why left-wing terrorist groups like Hope Not Hate are in a
panic. It is really hard for them to demonize someone like
<a href="https://www.bitchute.com/channel/lauratowler/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Laura Towler</a>. When the
person behind the “Migrants Not Welcome” projection on the cliffs of
Dover is a woman who likes to talk about tea and her wedding plans, it
is impossible to portray the movement as a bunch of beer swilling street
brawlers. The Left fears Patriotic Alternative because their old tricks
are not going to work on these guys.

Even Mark Collett, to be candid, has transformed himself into a good
example of how to conduct pro-white politics in the modern age. He has a
colorful past, where he went down the same old lonely road that many
nationalist activists have gone down both in the US and the UK. Having
learned from that, now a middle-aged father, he is a good redemption
story, as well as a spokesman for the cause. Normal people can relate to
a man who has grown into his role.

Probably the best thing that PA has done is shift from a negative
message to a more positive one based in the interests of native Brits.
Instead of railing against Muslims like a Tommy Robinson, or spending
endless hours talking about the wood used at German prison camps in
WWII, PA talks about what is best from native Brits. All of those other
groups are going to do what they do. What matters, what will determine
the future, is what the native Brits do to preserve themselves.

Patriotic Alternative is a good example for American activists. The US
has different challenges and a different history. Southern activists
will have different concerns and different cultural issues than
activists in the Northwest. You really cannot speak on behalf of “Native
Americans” in the way you speak of “Native Brits.” Even so, the positive
message is always the better approach, because it always draws a better
crowd, which in turn makes the message more appealing.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
