---
title: "The Church Of Covid"
date: "2020-09-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21358"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21358"
---

Depending upon when you mark the beginning, the world is anywhere
between six and eight months into the Covid panic. While some parts of
the world have slowly climbed back down from the ledge, other parts of
the world seem committed to another round of lock downs and public
hysteria. In fact, the great and the good are <a
href="https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2020/09/25/how-covid-19-pandemic-ends-421122"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">telling us</a> that the public
rituals may be a permanent condition. The question, though, is why has
the world gone crazy over this particular pandemic?

Strangely forgotten in all of this is the fact that every generation or
so has a nasty virus get loose that results in a very bad flu season.
The last one was Swine flu, which was about a decade ago. There was a
worldwide outbreak of H1N1 called the Soviet flu in the 1970’s and
before that the Hong Kong flu. There are localized outbreaks of even
scarier things like MERS and SARS. In other words, Covid is neither
unusual or particular harmful compared to the regularly occurring
pandemics.

In fairness, the initial concern over the virus was justified. It
*could* have been another Spanish flu or it *could* have been an
engineered super-bug. Given the origin and the behavior of China, it was
a safe bet that this virus came from a lab. That means it *could* have
been much worse for many obvious reasons. While it most certainly
originated in a Chinese lab, we know it is not a super-bug that will
plunge the world into darkness or become an extinction event.

One reason for the panic is the ongoing crisis in the West. Most of the
world has not only come off the ledge, but is back to normal. China,
where this thing started, is completely back to their version of normal.
It is Europe and the Anglosphere that continue to struggle with the
panic. Europe seems to be determined to go back into some form of lock
down, despite the evidence. The great and good in America are praying to
their gods for a second wave of infections.

The Covid pandemic has been the best thing to happen to minor
politicians and celebrities at all levels since the invention of
Twitter. In America, few people have any reason to know the names of
their local politicians, but now everyone knows the name of the people
behind the lock downs. The same is true of the silly drama queens who
fill in the blanks of public entertainment. Every day one of them <a
href="https://www.breitbart.com/entertainment/2020/09/29/jason-isaacs-people-who-dont-wear-masks-should-be-in-prison-or-hanging-in-the-streets/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">pops off</a> about the virus
in a way that gets them unwarranted public attention.

In the West, public trust and trust in authority have declined to the
point where all politics, all social behavior, is built around the
gesture. The new social capital is public displays of caring. Everyone
feels the need to tell the world how much they care, so anything that
can enable that spreads like a virus. The real pandemic this year has
been the plague of people and companies telling us how much they care
and that we’re all in this together. After all, it is about being safe.

This plague of caring is not all that different from the last plague of
caring that is still with us to some degree. The global warming panic
operated along the same lines as this Covid panic. Instead of the great
and good decorating themselves with masks and face shields, they toted
piles of grimy canvas sacks to the supermarket. They imposed silly
regulations on everyday items like gas cans and drinking straws. Caring
about Gaia is the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eleusinian_Mysteries"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Eleusinian Mysteries</a> of
the managerial class.

There is also a punitive aspect to this. That sense of communal
salvation is still very strong among the great and good. One
manifestation of this is that all of us must suffer for the sins of the
few. Only through suffering can we find salvation. In order to please
Gaia, we have to put up with drinking straws made of paper and
<a href="https://youtu.be/ANOgCY6NlGs" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">obnoxious lectures</a> from demented plutocrats. The
people behind the climate change stuff admit that there is nothing to be
done, but they apply the lash anyway.

In this regard, Covid has been manna from heaven. Just as everyone with
an IQ above room temperature has realized climate change is a scam, here
comes a scourge of the gods sent to punish the wicked for voting for
Donald Trump and Brexit. The vengeful, malicious technocrats that run
the West suddenly have a reason to torment the people over whom the
rule. Note that they <a
href="https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/home-news/parliament-bars-curfew-exempt-commons-workplace-canteen-pubs-b665366.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">casually exempt themselves</a>
from the ridiculous rules they impose on the rest of society.

Then there is the fact that Covid actually exists. Unlike climate
change, the great and the good can point to real people who are
genuinely sick. They have pumped up the death counts and are now
scouring the land for people who can test positive for the virus, but
Covid is a real thing. Climate change does not exist in any way that
impacts the lives of people. Covid is a bogeyman that does not require
mountains of graphs and charts based on cooked data. Everyone can
understand it.

This is why the Covid restrictions may be with us for a long time. With
these new tools of torment, the Torquemadas of the managerial class get
to take out their anger on the rest of us whenever they like. The
busybodies and overly officious flunkies of the system get to nose
around in your business and push you around. The Church of Covid has
made the worst elements of human society into high priests. These
loathsome freeloaders will never voluntarily let go of their new power.

**Media Note:** My <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=axUkWiRYnWk"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">YouTube conversation</a> with
Cotto and Gottfriedd is now up for the enjoyment of everyone. Make sure
to subscribe to their channel, as it helps them get noticed by the Borg
that controls YouTube. It was a fun show. I don’t do a ton of these live
stream things, so the quality of my performance is inconsistent. I was
quite intoxicated for this one, so I had a good showing.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="K5nligYZ7ELnxARQVfuE1g==cb74O44fDXTg6HUsatvBxmWbW3Qom7NA3NKthKh30LyQ6S3z5bzlYI5nFqvW/+RZ/E2"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="p4+ulEhkYsGndwGsDtzmkQ==cb79q7hNfvb8Qzx1KGXmXK0xcN8M5v0WWEZJxZVF2scfxrmIey4u2LflaUO3gdq+X4O"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
