---
title: "Riding The Tiger"
date: "2020-08-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21039"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21039"
---

One of the properties of modern liberal democracy is the mass media,
which today extends beyond the centrally control of media centers into
the effluvium of what we call on-line culture. It is no longer the
ruling class operating loudspeakers, pumping propaganda at us. Instead,
it is anyone with power adding their own special musk to the air we
breathe. As a result, the propaganda washes over us from every direction
and no one can escape it, not even the producers.

This is why every corporation suddenly got the BLM bug within hours of
that movement’s restarting its engine. The people behind this stuff
spend all of their days in the steamy flatulence of racial grievance
propaganda. They go to and run diversity workshops for and at their
company. They attend conferences where this stuff is preached to them.
They ride around in their cars pleasuring themselves to the soundtrack
of that minstrel show called Hamilton.

The forest fire of anti-white agit-prop that spread across the mass
media this summer was not as coordinated as it appeared from the
outside. Most forest fires are the combination of disconnected events.
Government neglect, the right weather conditions and some negligent
migrants camping in a dry forest. The same is true of this cultural
forest fire that still rages in parts of the country. The dry, brittle
minds of the mass media makers felt the spark of racial outrage.

The thing is, the people who are at the top of the present social order
are operating under two delusions. One is they think the country can be
united. That’s why they can’t stop talking about the idea of uniting the
country. For them, democracy means everyone spontaneously and
enthusiastically agreeing with them. Everyone comes together in one
voice, another common trope from our rulers, and belts out some show
tunes from Hamilton, then sets about creating the perfect society.

The other delusion is they truly think they are the moral leaders of our
society and they are fully in control of this machine they have
inherited. It’s not reasonable to say they created it, as the people
responsible for the current forest fire of agit-prop are too stupid to
create anything other than a mess. The people responsible for staging
the current racial theatrics are as much a product of the system and its
drama. Like the elements of any forest fire, they came to power by
unhappy accident.

The result we are seeing is endless offensive nonsense produced by
people who see themselves not only as our moral and spiritual leaders,
but as masters of this mass movement sweeping the country. They really
do believe they are leading a great groundswell of popular support. In
reality, most Americans find the whole charade ridiculous and are now
becoming impatient with it. That’s why Joe Biden has suddenly <a
href="https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/510763-biden-says-he-supports-additional-funding-for-the-police"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">turned on the woke calls</a>
to defund the police departments.

Biden, of course, has no idea where he is most of the time, so this has
very little to do with him, but his handlers are busy poll-testing every
imaginable idea. They will be responsible for selling an elderly
dementia patient to the voters. This is going to be a base election,
which is always the case when there is an incumbent on the ticket, so
they need to maximize their partisan’s enthusiasm. What they have no
doubt found is the <a
href="https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2020/08/05/81-of-black-americans-want-to-maintain-or-increase-police-presence-in-their-neighborhood/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">typical black lady</a> is no
fan of defunding the police.

The people behind the “bleep the police” movement don’t interact with
the cops, other than at their childish protests. If they did, they would
understand the real complaint blacks have with the cops in our major
cities. The criminals see the cops as a rival gang that has an unfair
advantage. Everyone else sees the cops as wasting their time following
their incomprehensible rules, rather than cleaning up crime. They see
the cops hassling bangers, but not getting them off the streets.

The fact is, the people in charge and responsible for the mayhem we are
seeing, are not master manipulators controlling the system. They are not
play 4-D chess to maintain their power behind the scenes. They are
riding a tiger that they poke and harass on occasion, without realizing
it. The black murder spree in 2016 did not help the Left any more than
the current riots will help them. None of this was planned. We are
seeing the confluence of events no one predicted.

The Biden camp suddenly wheeling around on the police issue is a good
example of why the Left usually wins. Despite their rhetoric, and they
very well may believe the conspiracy theories they spout, they act as if
they are riding the tiger. They move and adjust to stay on the back of
whatever is happening. The Right, in contrast, acts as if they are sure
some secret cabal is at the center of events, manipulating everyone like
a master chess player controlling the board.

You see this when the Left loses. It’s not the clever work of
Conservative Inc. that knocks them off the tiger. It is the Left’s own
errors. They shift one way, when they should have shifted the other and
some of their team falls off the tiger. We’re seeing that with Biden’s
nomination. The Left panicked and installed Biden, when they should have
picked someone young and energetic. An ambulatory candidate would be out
campaigning right now in places like Texas and Florida.

This is why Trump cannot be counted out in November. He is a guy who
thrives on chaos, which is why he always creates it. Trump is no longer
a roll of the dice and in uncertain times, that’s a great asset.
Dementia Joe, strapped to the tiger like a saddle, is the big gamble.
What we may witnessing is not a revolution, but one of those times when
the Left forgot they were riding the tiger and toppled off, only to be
eaten by the tiger, or in this case, his keepers.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
