---
title: "What About The Economy?"
date: "2020-12-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22144"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22144"
---

Depending upon your age, two standard items in the news for most of your
life, if not all of it, have been economic data and the stock market.
The economic stagnation starting in the late 1960’s lasting into the
1980’s made the economy the top priority on everyone’s mind. Every
election, it was one of the top issues. In the 80’s, Baby Boomers got
into the financial markets, so the stock market and your 401K became a
strange proxy for general happiness.

Something that has gone unremarked during the Trump era has been the
fact that these paramount issues have dropped in priority with the
media. On the Left the only thing that has mattered is hating Donald
Trump and white people. On the Right, the only thing that matters is the
various internal battles over what it means to be on the Right and where
Trump fits into it. No one has noticed that the stock market has just
about doubled in value during his presidency, despite it all.

Many on this side of the great divide mock public concern for the
economy, but that is often just a pose. A primary goal of any human
society is the prosperity of the people, as that is the point of human
organization. Humans came together in larger and larger groups, in part,
because it increased material prosperity. Even the communists were
primarily focused on material prosperity. Read the book <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Red-Plenty-Francis-Spufford/dp/1555976042"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Red Plenty</a> and you will see that no
one is more materialist than a communist.

What’s odd about the sudden lack of interest in the economy and markets
by ruling class media organs is that it is a central part of the Covid
panic. Government shuttering businesses has to have an impact on the
economy. Washington has been hurling money at the economy for a year
now. The Federal Reserve’s balance sheet is probably going to top $10
Trillion to end the year. The 2020 deficit is over $3 Trillion. More
money is promised for 2021, assuming current plans move forward.

Again, the massive economic upheaval caused by the government in
response to Covid should be showing up in the economy and that should be
news. In many cities, the restaurant industry has collapsed. San
Francisco has seen an <a
href="https://www.sfgate.com/food/article/It-s-decimated-down-here-About-85-of-San-15774680.php"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">85% decline</a>, which is an
unprecedented event. Big chains with connections into the ruling elite
will survive, but the small ones will never come back. San Fran is
hardly unique. The tyrant Cuomo is promising to <a
href="https://ny.eater.com/2020/12/7/22158808/cuomo-indoor-dining-nyc-ban-restaurants-bars"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">finish off</a> the restaurant industry in
his state.

Of course, it is not all bad news. The nations rich people are doing
well, which is no doubt a relief to everyone. Toll Brothers, the luxury
home builder, <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/toll-brothers-says-housing-market-strongest-30-years-wealthy-americans-buy-mcmansions"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">reports</a> they are having their best
year in decades. Much of their business is around the Imperial Capital,
where it is always good times, so Covid has been manna from heaven.
Those trillions in new spending are laundered through Washington, so it
means the locals are flush with cash for new cars and new homes.

On the flip side of this, we are seeing food lines turning up in what
used to be middle-class parts of the country. Again, you would think
this would be at the top of the news, but it gets limited coverage.
Usually, it is someone on social media posting a picture of cars lined
up at a food bank. The reason we have food lines is we have lots of
people without work all of a sudden. It turns out that shutting down
businesses and locking people in their homes increases unemployment.

One reason for the lack of interest in the economy is the numbers no
longer make any sense to people. How can the stock market be booming
when the economy is being cratered by lock downs? How can housing prices
be soaring when we have food lines and massive small business failure?
The official statistics are little help, as they are <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/labor-department-published-flawed-estimates-of-weekly-jobless-claims-watchdog-says-11606752477"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">mostly wrong</a> now. For a long time,
the economic data was a rough approximation of the economy, but now it
is just more noise from the system.

The point here is that the economy should be the big story. There are a
lot of red flashing lights that suggest 2021 could make 2020 look like
good times. Those millions lined up for free food are going to become a
story, even if official media refuses to notice it. The collapse of
small business will have a huge impact further up the supply chain in
the next year. All of those closed restaurants had suppliers and those
suppliers have suppliers and creditors.

The elephant in the room, of course, is the growing wealth gap in
America. We are becoming a land of very rich people, a minor aristocracy
we call the managerial class and then a vast population of peasants. The
media is in the minor aristocracy, so from their perspective, things are
doing well. They have theirs and their bosses are happy, so why bother
talking about the economy? The politicians have no reason to discuss it
for much the same reason. They are doing great.

Regardless, realty is that thing that does not go away when you stop
believing in it and our economic reality is increasingly muddled. How
long can the Federal Reserve keep buying up assets to maintain asset
prices? What happens when those mortgage forbearance plans expire?
Delinquency rates remain at <a
href="https://www.mba.org/2020-press-releases/november/mortgage-delinquencies-decrease-in-the-third-quarter-of-2020"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">levels</a> you see in a severe economic
crisis. How about those <a
href="https://www.nmhc.org/research-insight/nmhc-rent-payment-tracker/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">late rent payments</a>? Those problems
are not getting better with <a
href="https://finance.yahoo.com/news/initial-jobless-claims-week-ended-dec-5-2020-coronavirus-pandemic-184915706.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">jobless claims going up</a>.

The official media could ignore the economy for most of the Trump term,
because the public was generally satisfied with what they were
experiencing. That’s probably about to change, but they won’t have the
orange man to blame for it. One consequence of the selection of the
Pretender Biden is that the ruling class has no one to blame. They own
it all now and if the people are not happy with the bread or the
circuses, they know who is responsible for it.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="qeyOouLNLiSVfLsytk5V5Q==cb7U4/bjpT4QG5cT5oqRlj8NrGmOIuphhSdHAefRrAujH1sdDUpOVtsZSbPY0MLLRQN"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="+dxWUVEItEA7cuq0OnKZag==cb7XyQmGghvn7wUK/tC0DEMHIJlAjaZ5BC0eFifS8YXnUQruleobHAYWDOmyRdphsRd"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
