---
title: "The Media Revolution"
date: "2020-07-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Mass Media
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20956"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20956"
---

In 2016, the Left was super confident they had the election in the bag.
So confident, in fact, they got sloppy. It was around this time that the
FBI was spying on the Trump campaign, assuming President Clinton would
be cool with it. They are just as confident this time, but they probably
don’t have the FBI and CIA spying for them. Given what happened in 2016,
you would think they would be cautious, but instead they are overflowing
with certainty. They know they will win.

One reason for this is they have purged almost all dissenting voices
from their preferred media platforms. The Drudge Report is so
over-the-top in his anti-Trump antics it feels like a parody site now.
There is some speculation that he sold out to Silicon Valley grifters,
but Drudge was always a creation of Neo-Conservative Inc. His sources
and sympathies were always in that world. That whole scene has fired up
the NeverTrump clown car for one more ride through the public square.

Twitter is just a far-left echo chamber. They have been purging so many
people from the platform, even the most determined of trouble makers has
grown bored with the effort it takes to get back on and stay on the
site. Sites like Reddit and 4chan are muted for fear of being shut down
like 8chan. That site was shuttered by the usual suspects and had to
re-spawn as a weaker version of itself. Other than Gab and semi-private
platforms, the internet is tumbleweeds and left-wing cranks.

One result seems to be a soaring confidence of the Left. They are
carrying on like Dementia Joe will win every state twice in November.
His vote will be so strong it will change the results of the last
election. That’s an amusing exaggeration, but it is at the heart of
their world view. Installing Biden in the White House will allow them to
memory hole the 2016 election, as if it never happened. They will
probably instruct textbook makers to skip the last four years of
history.

Another result is some former enthusiasts of the Trump campaign are very
depressed, certain that their guy will lose and that he deserves to
lose. The anti-Semites, for example, are sure everyone is abandoning
Trump, because the anti-Semites have been purged from the internet. It’s
really weird how those guys on the one hand claim our greatest ally
controls the media, but on the other hand they intensely follow the
media and accept what they see at face value.

It is a good example of how the intensely on-line can lose perspective.
When all of your inputs are from on-line media sources and people who
agree with you, often two sets with great overlap, you get a warped view
of the world. That’s the irony in what we are seeing right now. The
former Trump fans who now hate Trump look at the media and see
confirmation, while the people who hate those former Trump enthusiasts
see the same media and also see confirmation.

The thing is, normal white people are getting really sick of the hate
whitey stuff all over the media. During the last few months, whitey has
been finding refuge in watching movies and television shows. Now they
are being bombarded with explicit hatred of white people. If you
circulate around normal people, it comes up a lot. When it does come up,
the intensity is plain as day. These are people who would be Trump
voters, so it is not as if this is changing minds, but it is pissing
them off.

The puzzle is, with the lack of confirmation, will these people act on
their anger and frustration this November. They don’t have anyone but
Tucker in the media addressing their anger. They can’t get confirmation
on-line, even from dissidents, as they have either been purged from
social media, toned it down or now operate in semi-private venues like
this one. Tucker having record numbers, however, suggests there is a
deep reserve of pissed off Trump voters.

An important tenet of modern mass media is that these big social media
platforms dictate public sentiment. The Left used to say, in the before
times, that their control of the media was worth as much as 4-5 points
in an election. That was probably an exaggeration, but it did seem to
matter. They controlled what was discussed, thus always giving the
Democrats home field advantage. They are now sure their control of
social media is driving public sentiment.

Is the same true of modern media? The 2016 election could be used to
argue both sides of that debate. Trump used Twitter to get around and
control the media, by forcing them to respond to him, rather than the
other way around. On the other hand, he was confronted by a wall of
sound from the Left, but won anyway. It is easy to forget, but the Left
was every bit as triumphant and nasty four years ago as they are right
now, but the voters did not follow along as predicted.

He also had his rallies, which had to be covered by the media. This
confirmed to his supporters that they were not alone. They saw lots of
normal people enjoying the rallies and they saw the cranks in the media
mocking those fellow normies. It was both confirming and infuriating.
That’s the thing he needs to work around this time. He needs to let his
voters see that normal people are just as angry at the revolution and
that the way to express it is to support Trump.

One thing that has always been true about the American Left is they
think rhetoric that works once will work forever and in all situations.
The word “Nazi’ has been so overused that only far-left cranks respond
to it with something other than laughter. Racist is heading in the same
direction, as most normal white just laugh at it now. We may be seeing
something like this with mass media. The Left has so abused their
control of the media that it now amplifies sentiment, rather than alters
it.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
