---
title: "The Great TikTok Game"
date: "2020-09-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21291"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21291"
---

For months now, the company TikTok has been in the news, and not just
because it is the preferred video sharing service of portly nurses. The
company has been at the center of both a strange bidding war and a
controversy over its ties to the Chinese communist party. TikTok is
owned by a Chinese firm and like all Chinese firms that means it is
controlled by the communist party. The American government has said the
parent company is a national security threat.

It is the national security issue that has created the bidding war. The
Trump administration said the parent company, ByteDance, must sell the
service to an American firm or the company will be banned from the US.
Trump has issued a couple of executive orders banning the app from phone
stores. The claim is the Chinese communist party is using the videos of
chubby nurses dancing in empty hospitals to undermine the American
people’s faith in their rulers.

The national security issue is a bit ridiculous. China is spying like
crazy on western companies and western governments. Nothing is too small
or too trivial. They will steal anything not nailed down. It is not just
industrial and military espionage. A <a
href="https://www.cnbc.com/2020/09/21/nypd-cop-charged-with-acting-as-china-agent.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">New York City policeman</a>
has been arrested for spying on behalf of the Chinese. They say he was
reporting to officials at the Chinese Consulate in New York on the
activities of other ethnic Tibetans in the New York area.

The fact is, if the rulers really cared all that much about Chinese
espionage, they would treat China the way they treated the Soviet Union.
Travel would be highly restricted and business ties would be highly
regulated. Instead, American firms are free to be plundered by China in
exchange for a quick buck. Chinese nationals pour into America and every
Western country. They are given free access to whatever they like.
TikTok is a tiny issue compared to all the other problems.

In fairness, Trump is the first president to take the Chinese threat
seriously and he has faced a wall of opposition from the usual suspects.
While this TikTok deal is small potatoes, they may see it as a useful
bit of symbolism. It brings the issue of Chinese spying into the public
debate. It also touches on the immigration issue. Why are we importing
people to work in American companies and research labs from a country
actively engaged in wide-scale espionage against us?

Putting that aside, there is a bigger question. Why are the oligarchs
fighting with one another over a chance to buy a piece of this company?
So far, Oracle, Walmart, Microsoft and Twitter have been the most
aggressive. Twitter makes some sense as the TikTok videos made by chubby
nurses are usually posted on Twitter. Microsoft makes some sense, as it
lets them get back onto people’s mobile devices. That way they can
harvest their data and sell it like other social media firms.

What makes no sense is why Oracle or Walmart would be involved. What
makes even less sense is why the price is $20 billion for a tiny slice
of the firm and no access to their proprietary technology. What could
Walmart gain from owning a piece of this company, other than a small
return on the investment? What would Oracle need from a silly
application like this? They make business applications like database
systems and enterprise software. Why would they want this?

Then there is the media fascination with it. State run media in America
is a bit different than in China, in that it represents the permanent
ruling class and its servants in the bureaucracy, not the figurative
leaders of government. They have been following this story like a
pennant race. The New York Times has done hundreds of stories on this
since it started. The same is true of the Washington Post. Even the Wall
Street Journal has been obsessed with the bidding war for TikTok.

An added bit of mystery to this story is the fact that the proposed deal
with Oracle does not include the company’s secret technology. Everyone
understands that the app itself is worthless, but the secret technology
has value. Supposedly, TikTok has cutting edge facial recognition
technology and their behavioral analysis algorithm is better than
anything Silicon Valley has created. That’s the real value, but the
proposed deals with American firms excludes that technology.

As presented, nothing about this story makes a lot of sense. If this
company was a serious national security concern, the government would
just ban it from American mobile devices. Apple and Google have no
trouble banning apps from their platforms for political reasons. Twitter
could block all TikTok videos, thus collapsing the chubby nurse TikTok
market. There’s no need for all of this drama if national security is
the real reason behind this story.

A more likely reason is the Silicon Valley oligarchs see China as a
threat to their interests around the world. Unlike American competitors,
Apple and Google cannot just ban China from their devices. The Chinese
would then flood the world with second copy phones and ban these
companies from the Chinese market. What they are doing is getting the US
government and allies like Walmart and Oracle to do their bidding for
them, so they can keep their hands clean.

Then there is the Indian factor. Silicon Valley is slowly being taken
over by South Asians, who have an ethnic interest in opposing Chinese
tech. India would like to see the US reposition itself in Asia, by
moving manufacturing and technology from China to India, so a cold war
with China works for them. The people who put Kamala Harris on the
Democrat ticket are certainly capable of engineering this TikTok story.
This is how ethnic politics works in an empire.

The most salient issue is that nothing about this drama has anything to
do with what is best for the American people. Trump makes some noises
about Chinese espionage being bad for America, but what he really means
is bad for the military industrial complex and the private sector
oligarchs. If it was good for those interests, the American government
would allow China to conduct human sacrifices on American college
campuses. That’s another reality of the empire.

Of course, there is another angle here. Judges keep stepping in to block
the government from banning this service from American phones. Yet, when
it is American owned tech, like Gab, getting banned from phones, no one
blinks. The political class falls all over themselves to explain why
that form of censorship is good. The Chinese communist party has more
first amendment protections than Americans. Maybe Gab should relocate to
Beijing.

In the end, the TikTok story is mostly about China. On the one hand,
social media players see China as a competitor and a partner. They want
access to the market, but they don’t want to compete with Chinese tech
in America. Walmart, Microsoft and Oracle get to play the white hat with
this and curry favor with the Chinese. The Indians get to use the US
government as a weapon against their competitor. This is now the great
game in the late stages of the American empire.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
