---
title: "Cui Bono?"
date: "2020-04-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20213"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20213"
---

Early in my working life, I found myself managing a few salesmen, along
with some entry level managers. Since my area of responsibility only
required three salesmen, it did not warrant a sales manager, so that
duty was mine, as well as operations. It was a good training job for a
young guy. One thing I learned from the sales guys is something that
stuck with me forever. That is, no one cares about a deal more than the
salesman working the deal. He’s the one that will make it happen.

You see, even in a big company, every salesman is like a small business.
His expenses are his time and his revenue is his commission. The really
good salesmen are shrewd in how they spend their time, never wasting a
minute on a bad deal. They never fight the commission structure. If
selling the crap product gets a bigger commission, then they sell the
crap product. If the product is so crappy, they can’t sell it, they find
a new job where they can hit their commission goals.

Since sales drives everything about business, it was a great lesson
about the reality of business and bureaucracy. The managers have goals
and they try to craft incentives so their people naturally work toward
those goals. The trouble is, they often see the world through their own
myopic eyes, rather than through the eyes of their people.
Alternatively, they will foolishly think their people will make personal
sacrifices on behalf of their goals. They think everyone cares about
their deal as much as they do.

We are seeing this play out in the response to the pandemic. The people
making the models and making predictions care about things that are
important to them. It has always been assumed that they care most about
being right, but as the models have failed and they are now “updated” on
a daily basis, it turns out that accuracy really was never all that
important to them. <a
href="https://theweek.com/speedreads/897799/harvard-scientist-predicts-coronavirus-infect-70-percent-humanity"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Marc Lipsitch</a>, the guy
largely responsible for the panic, was never all that concerned with
being right.

Similarly, the people making public policy were always working their
deals, rather than working your deal. By that I mean they were not
issuing crack down orders on people because it was good for the public.
They did it because it was good for them or at least they assumed it was
good for them. It is why we had a race between states to see who could
arrive at the most absurd policies. The nation lies dormant now because
of a bizarre beauty pageant among the nation’s governors.

The response from our imperial rulers to this shuttering of the country
is another deal that means everything to the people who passed it. Trump
and Congress were really proud of themselves for having done the deal in
such short time. It turns out though, that the deal was a great public
relations stunt, but not much of a deal for the nation’s small business
people. <a
href="https://thefederalist.com/2020/04/08/the-senates-plan-to-save-small-businesses-is-already-failing-and-mnuchin-just-made-it-worse/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This post</a> at the
Federalist walks through the math of the Payroll Protection Act. Be
prepared for breadlines this summer.

Of course, the most glaring example of this is the health care system.
In response to a theoretical problem, it is in the process of <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/06/well/live/coronavirus-doctors-hospitals-emergency-care-heart-attack-stroke.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">creating real problems</a> by
faking death certificates and indefinitely postponing medical care for
people with real diseases, in order to perpetuate the crisis atmosphere.
The system is acting in the interest of the system, because the people
at the top making the decisions care about their deal more than anything
else. They closed the system to save it from the virus.

All of this should be a good reminder about the reality of anything that
has the word “managed” in its label. Whether it is a managed health care
system or a managed economy, the people doing the managing care more
about their deal than anything else, thus the system they manage comes
to reflect their interests. The stone-heads on our side cheering the
crisis and demanding managed health care and a managed economy will soon
find out what that really means. Enjoy the bread lines.

Of course, the stone-heads will argue that destroying the civil life of
the country is the price to be paid for discrediting the current order.
That may be true, but that does not mean the people cheering it will
suddenly be vaulted to the top by the people being made to pay the price
for this disaster. Again, those people at the top with the monopoly of
force will surely take care of their deal before allowing anyone else to
profit from the turmoil that is coming our way this summer.

The point of all this is even small organizations become very
complicated in a hurry, because people have lots of priorities
individually, which can coincide with and contradict their collective
priorities. Fine tuning those while working your own deal is beyond the
skill of most managers. It is why bureaucracies become self-serving and
why managed anything is a fool’s errand. Whether it is managed economies
or managed health care, eventually, the deal that matters most is the
manager’s deal.

Circling back to those salesmen I managed, the second big lesson I
learned in that job was from my boss. I complained to him that the
commission structure I inherited worked against our interests because it
was too complicated to manage. He told me to make it a flat commission
on gross, but that I was responsible for the performance of every deal I
signed off on going forward. It did not take long for the sales staff to
know what was good business for me and what was a waste of their time.

That’s the lesson the stone-heads from the planned economy camp and the
free market zealots never grasp. The choice is not between a system
managed by angels or a system run by the invisible hand of magic. The
choice is always between clarity and opacity. When the incentives are
clear and individual interests are clear, everyone makes better
decisions and demands more rational sacrifice. When those things are
hidden, it is when our virtues are soon turned into vices.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
