---
title: "The Awakening"
date: "2020-10-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21570"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21570"
---

When Finnish nationalists get together every year to socialize and
organize, they call their event The Awakening. It is a great term for
them to use as it has multiple meanings in this context. One is the
obvious awakening among Finns of their long dormant nation pride and
identity. The other is the growing awareness of what globalism and
multiculturalism means to them as a people. It can also mean the growing
awareness of liberal democracy and what it is doing to the people.

The image of a man waking up or snapping out of a daze is a good one to
use for all Western people, especially Americans. In the provinces of
the Empire, there has always been a bit of skepticism about America, so
they never fully succumbed to the narcotic effects of the American
empire. In the heart of the empire, the combination of American
mythology, civic nationalism and patriotic nostalgia have kept most
Americans in a narcotic fog, unable to fully grasp what is happening to
them.

There’s also a very American aspect to this concept. The [Great
Awakening](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Great_Awakening) is a
cycle in American culture that dates to the founding. A mostly northern
phenomenon, these periodic spasms of moral and civic reform have defined
our politics. The ruling class may have abandoned Christianity
generations ago, but the people are still controlled by those same
biorhythms. Therefore, Americans are still prone to periods of excessive
moralizing about the fallen state of society.

Amusingly, the current ruling class has bastardized the term to use it
in their current anti-white pogroms. The “woke” people waging jihad
against white people claim to be suddenly aware of white supremacy,
white privilege and male privilege. In reality, they just gobbled down
the latest batch of hallucinogenics issued from the global human
resource departments. The full expression of false consciousness is
middle-aged childless women claiming to be woke on the patriarchy.

As an aside, it is rather symbolic that the ruling class would embrace
the concept of an awakening to decorate their latest enforcement
efforts. It is the hallmark of the global ruling class to take naturally
occurring phenomenon and destroy them in an effort to squeeze a few
dollars from them. It is appropriate for a parasitic class of rapacious
vermin to try to monetize and politicize the awakening concept as they
try to prevent people from waking up to the reality of that parasitic
class.

All that aside, there is an awakening going on outside the big stages
and production houses of America popular culture. No one in corporate
media is allowed to mention it and most are happy to comply with that
edict, but it is a real thing that will define the near future, possibly
the election. Like most social change, it is happening slowly in many
little ways, so it is not obvious. Even for people on the edge of the
awakening, the changes can be frustratingly subtle, but it is happening.

People are waking up to the reality of race in American politics and
culture. You see that with the collapse in sports viewership. Before the
Left unleashed the latest anti-white pogrom, white people loved their
sports. Then it went away and then it came back decorated with the
latest political slogans. Suddenly, what it was, what it always was, was
clear to many people and they have <a
href="http://maristpoll.marist.edu/marist-center-for-sports-communication-marist-poll-results-analysis/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">abandoned</a> it. It’s not
just the politics in the games, but the politics around all of us.

Another area where people are becoming more aware of the reality behind
the illusion is in the mass media. The “fake news” stuff is a nice
partisan chant, but even the most partisan Trump people have been
clinging to the belief that the media going woke would cause them to go
broke. The Biden corruption story is waking many up to the reality of
our mass media. It’s not a business at all, but one of the many
tentacles of the ruling class, used to keep certain people in power.

The thing that the people behind this story probably don’t get is how
this puzzle piece suddenly brings into focus a picture that was not all
that clear for many. The media claiming this Hunter Biden story is <a
href="https://www.politico.com/news/2020/10/19/hunter-biden-story-russian-disinfo-430276"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Russian propaganda</a> is like
a bucket of ice water on the heads of many people. The outlandish
dishonesty at work here cannot be explained as mere partisanship. The
whole Biden story, his dementia and now his corruption, is a stunning
eye opener for many Americans.

Again, it is easy for even the most cynical to miss it. “Oh, normie will
go right back to his sports ball” was what we heard months ago from the
most cynical. That did not happen and now seems unlikely to happen. The
spell has been broken. The same is happening with mass media. The center
of gravity for normal people moved from the assumption of bias to an
assumption that what is in the news is a lie. There is a palpable
breakdown in trust between the people and the ruling class.

This Hunter Biden story may be another inflection point. Many people are
looking at this and wondering just how deep the corruption goes. After
all, the FBI has had this material for months and never followed up on
it. In fact, they appear to have been actively concealing it from
Congress. Were they planning to blackmail Biden with it if he won the
election? When people can plausibly start to wonder such things, they
have lost all confidence and trust in their ruling class.

Like most things, cultural awakenings are not neat and tidy. The
pedantic cannot appreciate that these things happen in fits and starts.
Often the real action is happening in private conversations between
friends and family. A catalyzing event brings those private
conversations into the public, but it was a series of minor little
things that nudged people along in the private deliberations. In the
fullness of time, 2020 may be known as the year of the American
Awakening.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="0Db966/8wZ0IrvxYUIk3zw==cb7ooRl8Hs/s2VKUNAKibmmgoTZ1gxOOHWmCzO77ro+5vQCZZLCTi/wfL3d/8dcrnfy"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="eRuKGUb622XOSW/oTuqW7Q==cb7aH+QZNathWLspIIqpAt+bl8dvYf3j03bpRhCX00zAsIJ+zO/UY2NBxoe/p9s6cqE"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
