---
title: "The Jelly Bean Man"
date: "2020-05-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20556"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20556"
---

Imagine one day you are snatched off the streets by a group of men, who
throw you into a van and take you to some hideaway. They blindfold you
and refuse to tell you why they have snatched you off the streets. At
some point you’re drugged and you wake up in a mysterious coastal
village. Everything about the village seems normal, except for the fact
you are there, a place you have never been. Everyone seems to know you,
as if you belong there. Naturally, you are completely disoriented.

Of course, you try to find a way out of the village. After several
escape attempts which are thwarted by a giant balloon-like automaton.
You realize that the village is not really a village, but a form of
prison. It is bounded by the mountains and sea, in addition to various
surveillance devices. In between your escape attempts, you are
interrogated by the person that seems to be in charge of the place. He
keeps asking your questions about your old life, but you cannot figure
out what it is he wants.

After a while, the interrogations become conversations and then friendly
conversations as you become habituated to your new life. In fact, you
have grown to like the talks you have with the man in charge. The
villagers are nice, but rather simple and incurious and they are
oblivious to their situation. Number One, on the other hand, is fully
aware of your situation and quite open about it. It becomes clear that
you were not really kidnapped, but recruited in an unusual way to an
unusual life.

In time, the man in charge offers you a position in the power structure
of the village, as you are feeling quite at home. The village does not
use normal money, but instead uses jelly beans. The different colored
jelly beans have different values in relation to one another and are
used like currency. The villagers carry them around in a sack like gold
coin in the old days. The basic unit is the black bean, while the
highest denomination is the white bean, which is five-thirds the black
bean.

The arrangement works well enough, as the villagers with jobs are paid
in jelly beans and those on the dole are paid with jelly beans. Everyone
has some source of income, so everyone can use beans for transactions.
In fact, it works so well that no one thinks it odd in the least. Even
you have grown used to carrying around a sack of jelly beans to make
your purchases. Now that you are working for Number One, you too get a
fresh sack of beans every payday.

There are some problems. One is people occasionally eat their jelly
beans, thus removing them from the economy. Because they are small, they
can also be lost if someone drops them. Then there is the fact that they
are a bit fragile and can be destroyed if not handled carefully. The
result is there is a declining number of beans in the system. It also
means certain villagers, who are more prudent, increase their stock of
beans relative to everyone else in the village.

Your job with Number One is to figure out how to maintain the stock of
beans in the village and keep anyone from hoarding the beans. Then there
is the fact that new people show up in the village from time to time,
just as you did, and they have to be stocked up with beans. Of course,
people do try to run off from time to time and the giant balloon-like
automaton will take them out. Your job as Head Keeper of Beans is to
figure out how to manage the bean supply in the village.

You got the job because you have a head for numbers, so you first try to
count the beans in the village on a regular basis. This proves to be
impossible, as the villagers appreciate why you are doing it, but they
can’t be bothered. The count is unreliable and you can’t trust it to
make decisions about adding or subtracting beans. You then come up with
a way to take a sample count and estimate the total from it, but you
find that your estimates are lagging indicators. You’re always behind
the curve.

After careful consideration, you land upon an idea. You realize that as
any bean becomes scarcer, it will become more precious, so villagers
will be less inclined to part with their stock of them. It means these
beans will move around the village at a slower rate. If you can measure
the bean flow on a regular basis, this will be a good measure the total
number of beans and the balance of beans. More important, you’ll know in
real time if there is a bean imbalance.

You also notice that the people who hoard beans are never the people who
eat their beans as a snack. They value their beans more than anyone else
in the village, so they are always looking to increase their stash as a
good in itself. You figure out that like other types of loss, this is a
constant. The solution is to add the hoarding rate to your other
measures in order to increase the bean supply. In effect, the number of
beans must always increase over the base line bean total.

It has taken a while, but you now have a set of measures you can use to
manage the bean supply. Once you see bean flow drop in some area, you
put more beans there to stimulate the movement of beans. If you see
beans accumulating in one area, you change the mix of beans or add beans
in a different part of the village to balance the bean total in the
village. You even figure out how to maintain the mix of beans in the
system, as the various colors have symbolic value beyond their face
value.

Number One is so happy with your work as the head of the bean supply, he
slowly increases your portfolio to manage other things related to beans.
In fact, you started life in the village as Number Six, but have slowly
ascended to the position of Number Two, but both you and Number One
realize you’re partners now. He may control the giant balloon-like
automaton and other weapons, but your control of the now highly complex
bean system makes you an indispensable man.

What really keeps you up at night is not the fact that Number One still
controls the giant balloon-like automaton or that you could be
transported back to your old life. Sure, there is some possibility he
will use his monopoly of force to undermine or even eliminate your
position. What haunts you is the thought of the villagers suddenly
realizing that their economy is based in candy. What if one day they all
wake up and realize their economy is based on a made-up system of fake
money?

This is the life of the central banker.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
