---
title: "The Future Of Futurism"
date: "2020-01-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19483"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19483"
---

About ten years ago, you could find any number of sites that focused on
the future in one fashion or another. Futurism was a cottage industry.
Ray Kurzweil and others, who made futurism a specialty, would get
interviewed by big shot publications. Kurzweil was even hired by Google
to be their professional futurist. The field was full of predictions
about how we were on the cusp of the singularity or that we were about
discover the fountain of youth. We would live forever in the robot
future.

All of that petered out in the last few years. The futurist bloggers
closed down and either moved to Twitter or disappeared entirely. The
sites that pushed whiz-bang technology stuff have fallen out of favor.
We seem to have run out of road on the technology side of things, as all
of the low hanging fruit from the microprocessor revolution has been
picked and turned into mobile devices. There has not been a killer app
or killer device in a long time now. The future is not so promising.

One reason for this sudden lack of interest in the future could be that
we are living in a simulation, specifically a [quantum
simulation](https://infoproc.blogspot.com/2019/10/the-quantum-simulation-hypothesis-do-we.html).
The beings running this simulation decided we needed to focus on other
things. Alternatively, this simulation inevitably results in a lack of
interest in the future. Having overcome the Malthusian limit and reached
the post-scarcity world, the future is not all that interesting. The
recent obsession with the future was just an echo effect.

Alternatively, the corresponding simulation to our simulation is now
focused on the future, so we are focused on the past. Maybe in this
quantum simulation, another version of us exists in another universe. If
you spin around clockwise in this universe, your other self spins
counter clockwise in the corresponding one. Perhaps when our alternative
universe gets romantic about the past, we will see a new burst on
interest in the future here in this version of the quantum simulation.

The main argument against this being a simulation is that a race of
beings that sophisticated would not have created a simulation this
stupid. They would put us in a much more interesting experiment or throw
the whole thing in the trash. On the other hand, this simulation could
be a child’s experiment. This world in which we exist is sitting on a
child’s dresser like an ant farm. The last few decades were the result
of the cat getting into the experiment and breaking some things.

The people who claim to know about public sentiment used to claim that
movies and television shows about the future were a reflection of the
public’s anxiety or lack of it about the present. If dystopian shows
were popular, it meant the public was worried about current events. If
the shows were more positive, then it meant people were feeling good
about things. Presumable the lack of movies about the future would say
something as well, but no one mentions it.

That is something that gets little attention about the multicultural
paradise our rulers have planned for us. The business model of Hollywood
is built on the assumption of a white middle-class. Devouring that white
middle-class in order to create a multicultural paradise leaves
Hollywood without an audience. South America has never been a great
market for mass media. China and India are capable of producing their
own computer-generated crap. The future of Hollywood looks grim.

That may be why the focus on the future has faded of late. Twenty years
ago, the Matrix could promise a mulatto future, because it seemed so
implausible. The tan future imagined by Hollywood seemed as implausible
as space ships. Now, people are increasingly aware of the realities of
demographics. Imagining a universe that is full of mystery meat people
is just going to press the wrong buttons. Maybe that’s why Hollywood
interest in the future has waned over the last few years.

That also raises another issue. Very few people, even in dissident
politics, like talking about the multicultural future that awaits us.
All of the commentary is either directly or indirectly about how to
prevent it. Since there is no stopping the transformation of America
into a majority-minority society, the most fertile ground of futurism is
about a world where hostile tribes, rubbing shoulders with one another,
are monitored by high tech corporations. That’s the future that awaits
us.

Maybe that’s the reason futurism is no longer popular. Dystopian futures
were intended to be warnings about the present. Whiz-bang futures are
about current trends, or imagined ones, advancing to their natural end.
Since no warning about multicultural future will make a difference,
there’s no point in it. Because that future will be awful, there’s no
point in thinking about it now. For people who sense they have no
future, there is no market for futurism.

On the other hand, that means there is a market for dissident writers to
create fiction that is positive about the fight ahead. The trouble is
the people who make movies don’t want white people to be positive, so
they instead make movies about gay comic book heroes and mulatto girls
running the world. Still, it is an untapped market that some clever
dissident could mine. Maybe the next turn of dissident politics is
dissident samizdat fiction about the tribal wars to come.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
