---
title: "The New Hope"
date: "2020-01-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19754"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19754"
---

One of the unique features of the current year is the very large gap,
the great divide, that separates conventional wisdom and its critics. On
one side, the conventional side, people still operate inside the moral
framework that formed up in the 1960’s and blossomed in the 1980’s. On
the other side are the critics and dissidents, who are operating under
an entirely different framework. Not only is there no overlap or areas
of agreement, there’s little contact between the two sides.

This is a new thing. In the 1980’s, as the neoliberalism was coming
together, critics and enthusiasts occupied the same physical and
cultural space. On TV chat shows, old school conservatives could
challenge new school conservatives about trade and immigration policy.
Paleo-libertarians could challenge both sides of conventional politics
on money, economics and social policy. Newspapers would run columns by
columnists, who questioned the emerging orthodoxy.

That’s not something you see these days. For example, read conventional
conservative websites and they are nothing but the same dull mush they
have been churning out for the last few decades. There are no lively
discussions about immigration or the impact of the demographic changes.
National Review hardly bothers to cover Trump. They just seem to be
waiting it all out, hoping the bad man goes away. Otherwise, they carry
on like 2016 never happened and that mob to their right does not exist.

The Left is actually much worse. Take an evening and watch the left-wing
cable chat shows and you will find yourself in a world of make believe.
It’s a useful only in that it is a glimpse inside the very weird world
of the Washington chattering classes. Again, the days of having on
contrary opinion are long gone. Instead, these shows and the print
publications that fuel them are like choirs. They sing familiar tunes to
the faithful in order to drive away all doubt. The one true faith is all
you see.

This strange insularity is, in part, what is driving the dissident
right. Every day refugees from the other side turn up on this side,
looking for answers. After the six millionth recitation of the
catechism, even the timid start to wonder why things never seem to get
better for the bulk of Americans. The funny guys with the frog things at
least offer some comic relief. Traditional Christians find themselves on
the same side as racists, because the people on the other side made it
so.

An illuminating example of this hard divide between orthodoxy and
dissent is [this
post](https://www.takimag.com/article/civil-rights-gone-wrong/) by Steve
Sailer, reviewing a book by conservative thinker Christopher Caldwell.
Sailer describes his book as “an explosive rethinking of history since
JFK’s assassination that comes to the reactionary conclusion that the
only salvation for American conservatism is to repeal the sainted 1964
Civil Rights Act and restore the constitutional right to freedom of
association.”

Right away, that should cause most dissidents to stop and wonder how it
is possible that such a conclusion is novel in anyway. As recent as the
1980’s, critics could openly talk about the negative consequences of the
Civil Rights Act. Into the last decade, legal scholars could publicly
question disparate impact, which is one of the deformities that has
arisen from the arguments behind the civil rights. Today, none of this
is possible on the other side. Those things can only be spoken of on
this side.

That’s why Caldwell’s book will be treated like an original document by
the people on the other side of the great divide. The sorts of topics
and modes of thought increasingly common on this side of the great
divide are completely forgotten on the other side of the great divide.
So much so that many people on that side, even the smarter ones, are
barely away such thinking exists. It is as if they live in a universe
that now operates by a different set of natural rules. It truly is a
great divide.

Now, it must be noted that Caldwell probably does pay attention to what
happens on this side, as best he can. He has to dodge the morality
police, so perhaps that is why he chooses to frame his critique as he
does. Still, it has the feel of someone, after having done everything
they could to get their way and silence their critics, discovering they
were wrong all along. Instead of rehabilitating their critics, however,
they proudly claim their arguments for their own.

That’s not what’s at work here. Caldwell, as far as anyone can tell, has
not been standing with the harpies, as they drive out the unbelievers.
He’s always been a skeptic of the prevailing orthodoxy. He is, however,
an insider, a house approved critic, who speaks to that audience. His
book is not aimed at dissidents, but at the sorts of people he
socializes with at book parties and conferences. He is one of them, not
one of us, even if he does not share their loathing for us.

This does reveal a truth about any possible reform movement that could
arrest the decline of the West. If the other side is to regain their
wits and begin to turn back from the abyss, they will have to do so
believing they are the ones sorting this all out. They will not credit
the people they drove away, for the crime of questioning what turned out
to be a defective orthodoxy. Reformers need the legitimacy of insiders,
which means maintaining the gulags for the old heretics.

Even so, what Caldwell’s book suggests, however, is that there is some
leakage between the dissident right and the prevailing orthodoxy. It is
not a one-way mirror that divides the two sides. Some of things on this
side are slowly making their way over. For those hoping for a peaceful
transition back to normalcy, there’s the white pill. One book here, one
speech there and before long, the other side has their Khrushchev. It is
a thin reed, but it is some hope for a soft landing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
