---
title: "Thoughts On Kenosha"
date: "2020-08-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21147"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21147"
---

Kenosha Wisconsin has now become the pivot point for the revolution from
above being waged on middle America. Riots have convulsed the city for
three nights since a violent black rapist was shot by police after
resisting arrest. Large swaths of the city have been burned as the mayor
cheered on the rioters. This led to <a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-8665383/One-shot-dead-two-wounded-BLM-protesters-defy-curfew-Kenosha.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the shooting of three
rioters</a> by a 17-year old kid, who volunteered to help defend the
property owners. The video of the incident has become a world-wide
sensation.

Of course, this being Jim Snow America, the white kid is now charged
with capital murder and faces life in prison. White people who kill in
self-defense get charged with capital murder, while
<a href="https://twitter.com/JDuncanrisengoy/status/1298695368872464394"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">blacks who kill for sport</a>
are allowed to go free. You see, the former is exercising white
privilege and is guilty of being white. The latter, on the other hand,
is the victim of white privilege and is justifiably angry. In
post-reality America, privilege means being stripped of your rights and
dignity.

If Kyle Rittenhouse was a black or an immigrant from the third world or
even a transexual, he would not be in jail right now. He would be held
up as a hero by the mainstream media. President Trump would send Air
Force One to bring him to Washington for a special ceremony. Speakers at
the RNC convention would be told to mention his name in their speeches.
He is white, so no one at the convention will mention his name. They
have not mentioned Cannon Hinnant either.

Unlike other cases where the media can suppress the truth while
spreading lies, this time the truth was all over the internet before the
media could act. As soon as it happened, social media had video of the
attack on Rittenhouse. <a
href="https://www.revolver.news/2020/08/evidence-sugguests-kyle-rittenhouse-did-nothing-wrong/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">He fell to the ground</a> as
violent criminals attacked him and he opened fire on them. There can be
no narrative in which he is the villain. He may have been naive, but he
was simply following the civic nationalist code and doing what he
thought was his duty.

This is Jim Snow America. A white kid following the rules is guilty, no
matter what the facts say, so he sits in prison. His family started a
defense fund on Go Fund Me, but it was immediately taken down. Again, in
Jim Snow America, whites are not allowed to avail themselves of the
resources for self-defense. The system will now wage war on this kid’s
family in order to prevent them from defending their son. In Jim Snow
America, white people just have to take it.

It is an infuriating reality, for sure. In a better world, the mayor of
Kenosha would already be swinging from a tree. The good people of that
city would have remembered the words of Jefferson and fertilized their
tree of liberty. Of course, in a sane society, it would never have come
to this. There would be no riots sponsored by the ruling class, so Kyle
Rittenhouse would not have felt the need to go out in the streets. The
reason all of this happened is the rulers made it happen.

As infuriating as it may be, it is this reality that must shine through.
Those old rules you were taught about the law and your rights as an
America no longer exist. They certainly don’t exist if you are white. If
you are white, the system sees you as an enemy and will spare no expense
in attacking you. The reason Kyle Rittenhouse sits in jail is no one
told him this. Instead, internet warriors playing tough guy on-line
encouraged him to be a man of action.

This is why people who like saying “well, at least he is doing
something” need to be shouted down at every opportunity. These are
people who think every cause needs martyrs, just as long as they are not
the martyr, so they encourage everyone else to be foolishly brave. Like
James Fields, we have another naive and impressionable young white man
facing life in a cage, because he was convinced that doing something is
always better than doing nothing.

This is just one aspect of a larger point that white people need to
grasp. None of this would be happening if not for the political class.
The Kenosha police department has tanks and armored vehicles. They have
highly trained tactical units that are trained by Israel special forces
officers. The Kenosha police force could invade a small country, but
they are nowhere to be found during these riots. The reason they are
absent is the politicians have ordered them to let the riots rage.

This is what makes Kenosha a pivot point in the ruling class revolt.
This kid is not a scary monster who can be anathematized by the system.
Even <a href="https://twitter.com/davidfrum/status/1298744684928364545"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">vulgarians like David Frum</a>
think he looks innocent. Note that Frum is okay giving weapons to these
kids when they are killing Muslims on behalf of Israel, but otherwise he
never wants to see white people holding firearms. For the typical white
person, if he had a son, he would look like Kyle Rittenhouse.

Ultimately, that is now the significance of the Kenosha riots. White
people are faced with the reality of their sons being sent to prison for
the crime of being white. They face having their businesses destroyed
because non-whites are ungrateful. They are being harassed at
restaurants and in their home by mobs sponsored by the ruling class who
have embraced anti-whiteness as a revolutionary cause. It’s no longer an
abstract political argument. It’s daily reality.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
