---
title: "Mask Madness"
date: "2020-08-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21055"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21055"
---

The petty tyranny of the Covid panic has gone from a genuine response to
a public health concern to just another aspect of post-sanity America.
People now wear all sorts of silly face coverings when going about their
day for the same reason they wear pants or shoes. It’s just another
thing that is required. Soon, it will be custom, like not wearing white
before Memorial Day. The [ever changing
rules](https://www.boston.com/news/coronavirus/2020/08/07/charlie-baker-coronavirus-massachusetts-uptick-gathering-rules)
issued from local tyrants are now taken in stride like, the weather or
earthquakes in California.

The mask issue is another great example of how American politics is just
a morality play with the same roles every time. The Official Left
strutted onto the stage warning about the great monster and how the
democracy was at risk. Their solution was mandatory mask wearing like
their sponsors in China use. The Official Right tried to minimize the
issue and resisted for a while, but the Official Left whipped up their
partisans in the crowd and the Official Right eventually relented.

Meanwhile, out in the crowd, the partisans of the Left now feel
emboldened to harass people on the streets about masks, distancing and
so forth. Normal people, of course, are still stuck in the world of
facts and reason, but they are adjusting to life in a past-sanity world.
A similar pattern happened with homosexual marriage. Normal people still
think it is ridiculous, just as they think men in sundresses is absurd,
but they navigate around it and the crazies that support it.

Unlike homosexual marriage and drag queens, the petty tyranny has a
moral signifier to it that makes it tougher to navigate. The mask is the
most obvious one. Spend time in a public setting and you can see the
believers versus the compliant. The believers make sure their face
muffler is firmly attached and is clean and new. They make sure it is on
before they leave the car and they wear it all the way to the car.
Normal people stick theirs on just before they enter a store.

The same is true of other aspects of this performance. At places that
offer hand sanitizer, the faithful queue up, making sure to keep their
distance, then make a big show of rubbing themselves down with
sanitizer. Normals feel pressured to do it, but they look a bit out of
place. It’s like the C&E Catholics taking communion. They just assume
everyone knows they are going through the motions. Others, of course,
just ignore it and go about their business.

What makes all of this more compelling, from an anthropological and
sociological perspective, is no one knows if these measures have any
impact. The people who say they are effective almost always have no math
or science. They would not know the first step in thinking about how to
test the effectiveness of these measures. The other side of the debate
does not exist, at least not publicly. Those strongly opposed to these
measures base their arguments in the law, not science.

The truth is, there is no reason to think any of these measures have a
positive impact on the progress of the pandemic. That’s the first
important thing to know if you want to think about a pandemic. It is a
process. Assuming the new bug is not 100% lethal to those exposed and
humans can develop an immunity to it over time, a pandemic follows a
predictable pattern. There is the initial outbreak, where the most
vulnerable succumb, then it spreads through the population and
eventually burns out.

A pandemic burns out because eventually there is a critical mass of
people who are immune to the virus. Maybe they have a natural immunity
or they have developed one, but over time, the ability of the virus to
find a new host diminishes and it can no longer spread to new victims.
Of course, in the extreme, the virus just kills all those vulnerable to
it and the rest survive. Some researchers think this could have happened
in Philadelphia during the Spanish Flu outbreak.

The theory behind these counter measures was to slow the spread, so
hospitals would have time to gear up for patients. The fact that the
spread was not impeded in the slightest is a pretty good real-world test
of the measures. Maybe in theory they could work, but we don’t live in
theory. In reality, months of social distancing and mask wearing have
had no impact on the course of the disease. In fact, in places like New
York, their policies probably made it worse.

It is possible that all of these measures are bad idea. Take the
mandatory mask wearing business as an example. Wearing a surgical mask
in a medial setting as part of a protocol to maintain a germ-free
environment is well established. Hospitals have very lengthy procedures
for the staff, as well as regular training by people who are tasked with
maintaining a clean environment. The mask is just one small part of a
larger process to maintain a safe environment in the hospital.

In the regular world, where no such procedures are in place and no one
is trained in the proper use of masks, or even using proper masks, the
mask may be a bad idea. If you watch people in the wild, they are
endlessly fiddling with their masks. We know a primary vector for a
virus is people touching their face and eyes. A policy that increasing
face touching is not a good idea in a pandemic. In other words, mask
wearing may increase the spread of the virus in the real world.

The efficacy of mask wearing does not matter, as it is now just another
amulet people can wear in public to express their adherence to a
particular cult. In the case of the scolds yelling at people about their
masks, they believe their mask loyalty is a license to harass the world.
Social misfits at the bottom of the social hierarchy now use the mask
issue to attack the normal people for not liking the mask policy. The
mask is now just another part of the general madness of this age.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
