---
title: "The Minority State"
date: "2020-05-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20508"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20508"
---

Thirty years ago, as the Cold War was ending, the big question for the
West was what was going to come next? The great struggle between liberal
democracy and communism was over and the clear winner was liberal
democracy. The only real question, in terms of politics, was just how
quickly the rest of the world embraced what was clearly the only
rational politics. The question political theorists will be pondering in
the future, is what went horribly wrong with liberal democracy?

There really is no other way to frame things at this point. In 1990,
there was a long list of things that no one thought would ever happen in
the West. Most of things on that list were things assumed to be common
in the Soviet Empire. The police arresting someone for holding the wrong
opinion was the symbol of everything that was wrong in the communist
system and everything right about liberal democracy. Yet, thirty years
on and this is exactly what we see happening all over the West.

<a
href="https://www.richmondregister.com/news/police-courts/four-arrested-following-social-media-post-detailing-racism/article_0e102333-a33c-5c45-a5fc-e393018f2fdf.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> from Kentucky,
of all places, is a good example. Two children and two adults have been
arrested for racism. That’s not the specific charge. Instead the state
has invented a novel new crime called “harassing communication” which
means it is against the law to upset the wrong people with your public
utterances. Since there’s not official list of people one must avoid
upsetting, the state is free to arrest anyone for their speech on the
claim that someone may be upset by it.

At this point, it is tempting to make a comparison to the Stasi or maybe
Stalin’s KGB, but that would be a slander against the communists. They
were always quite clear about who you could never criticize and what you
must never dispute. When Stalin’s boys dragged you from your home, you
knew exactly why you were being hauled away by the police. Every man in
the gulag knew why he was there. The novelty of liberal democracy is in
keeping everyone in the dark about these things.

Another novelty is that in communism, everyone also knew to avoid taking
the side of the accused and they knew why to avoid it. That was another
thing Westerners would brag about during the Cold War. In America, when
someone was bullied by the state, lawyers would volunteer to defend the
accused. A common phrase used by Progressive civil and political rights
activists back then was “I may disagree with what you say, but I’ll
fight to the death for your right to say it.”

It turns out to have been a complete lie. Not only will no one fight to
the death to defend speech, the great and the good line up to condemn
anyone for speaking out. Where is the ACLU in these cases? Certainly not
rushing to defend children against the crime of saying mean things. No,
the ACLU is too busy ratting out heretics and blasphemers, who dare
question the liberal democratic ideology. In one of life’s great
ironies, all of the civil rights groups now work to limit your civil
rights.

Notice also how the concept of rights has changed. Thirty years ago,
even left-wing political actors accepted the old definition of rights,
as limits on the state. Your right to speak out against the government
was really a hard limit on the state to police the speech of the
citizens. Today, rights are just demands from an increasingly
minoritized population for things to which no one can have a right. In
this Kentucky case, they demand the community celebrate their mating
decisions.

That should be the story here. This family moves to the community and
begins making demands on the community. The white mother and her mulatto
daughter start harassing the school about the racial complexion of the
curriculum. The father demands the teachers change their classrooms to
satisfy the demands of his children. This mixed-race family instantly
became a cancer on the community, by making an increasingly narrow set
of demands in the name of their rights.

This is one of the new realities of liberal democracy. Instead of people
fearing the secret police and their many spies, the people fear the
civil rights activists and their auxiliary army of novel weirdos. A
mixed-race couple of trannies moves into the neighborhood and everyone
is gripped with fear. It not only means everyone has to play
make-believe with the lunatics, but must live in fear of upsetting them
in some way. The agent of terror is the bespoke weirdo and its crazy
demands for acceptance.

As an aside, this may explain the popularity of movies and television
shows based on Stephen King books. One of his formulas is the nice,
quiet small town that is suddenly beset by a demon that exploits the
innocence of the locals, often the children. Everything is just right
until the monster arrives. Further, the real terror in this formula is
that there is no reason behind the demon. It’s just evil for the sake of
being evil. That’s what the people in the Kentucky story are
experiencing right now.

It is tempting to think that the people will tire of this terrorism by
weirdo phenomenon, but the lesson of communism is that people will
tolerate pretty much anything in an ideological state. The old rule
about people revolting unless they are well fed and entertained turned
out to be untrue in the Soviet Empire. The people often lacked the
basics and the pleasures of life were highly rationed. Communism was not
overthrown by an unhappy people. It just ran out of social capital to
burn.

That is the secret sauce of popular government, whether it is some form
of communism or some form liberalism. Both rest on the concept of the
general will. The ideology of the state and the actions of the state are
in the name of the general will. Everything that is done is done in the
name of the people, as if fifty percent plus one is a god that must
always be pleased. People will revolt against a king or despot. They
will revolt against an aristocracy. People will not revolt against
themselves.

That really is the paradox of liberal democracy. In the name of the
people, the will of the people must be thwarted in the name of minority
interests. We saw this with homosexual marriage. The champions swore
they were fighting for the people, even when the people kept rejecting
these proposals. It is why increasingly narrow minority groups are so
popular with the ruling elite. If they can find just one weirdo to
champion, they have a license to do as they please.

This fetishization of obscure minorities is leading inevitably to the
West being dominated by minorities to the point where there is no
majority. America will be non-white in two decades and Europe will be
swamped with Africans by mid-century. Not only is there no effort to
prevent this, all efforts are made to accelerate it. Paradoxically, the
end point of majority rule is minority rule. Mature liberal democracy is
a collection of minority groups demanding stuff from the state, like
children at a candy store.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
