---
title: "Lessons In Identity"
date: "2020-08-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21104"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21104"
---

The so-called conservatives are muttering about how the choice of Kamala
Harris as Biden’s running mate is an ominous example of identity
politics. She was picked for her skin tone, they say, which is the worst
thing possible. In their fantasy country, the only thing that matters is
the content of your character. They have it all wrong, of course, but
the selection of Harris does provide some good insights into how
identity politics will work in the new non-white America of the near
future.

For starters, Kamala Harris did not end up on the ticket solely because
of her burnt orange complexion. That was how she was sold to Biden, who
was still hurting from being called a racist by Harris in the debates.
She was on the list, however, because she is the favorite of a powerful
constituency in the ruling class. The Silicon Valley oligarchs backed
her candidacy. They are an important part of the empire’s ruling elite,
so they have a great deal of influence in both parties.

The reason Harris is so popular with Silicon Valley is the number of
high caste South Asians in the executive suites of these companies. The
old gag about the tech call centers and programming shops being located
in India is still true, but the management suites are now increasingly
filled with South Asians. This is why they lobby so hard for worker
visas. This allows them to bring their co-ethnics over and begin the
process of normalizing them into America.

Unlike the so-called conservatives, stuck in the past with regards to
the contours of identity politics, the new tribes jostling for power in
America play identity politics the old-fashioned way, the tribal way.
It’s why Harris took to [Twitter to
celebrate](https://twitter.com/KamalaHarris/status/1294814370699059202)
Indian independence day with *her* people. Harris was not the only
“American” politician to celebrate *her* people’s national holiday. Not
to be outdone, Nikki Haley included a nice little graphic in her
[celebratory
tweet](https://twitter.com/NikkiHaley/status/1294675972378308608).

It turns out that there is one group that plays identity politics as
well as Jews and that is South Asians. They stick together wherever they
find themselves. So much so they were able to elbow the Jews out of the
Amsterdam diamond market. That is a remarkable feat, given the history
and nature of the diamond market. In the United States, they are taking
over the wholesale jewelry business. They are doing it on the power of
informal agreements among co-ethnics.

That’s the real nature of identity politics, but the yesterday men are
not entirely wrong in how Democrats play it. Even there, they miss the
point. Barak Obama did not win with huge black support simply because he
was black. He resonated with the black community in America because he
strongly appealed to black identity. A mixed-race child of extreme
privilege with a foreign sounding name was able to click with black
voters like no black politician in American history.

Obama appealed to the strongest element within black America, which is
black women, who dictate the size and intensity of the black vote. Obama
looked and sounded like what every black woman fantasizes for herself
and her son. He also married a very typical black woman, thus flattering
black women. He had two children with her and gave them goofy fake
African names. Obama may have been a mixed-race son of privilege, but he
strongly identified with black identity by choice.

That’s how identity politics works. It is not the superficial nonsense
about skin color or even ethnic heritage. This is what the yesterday men
of both the Left and the Right fail to grasp. Identity goes much deeper.
It is the essence of who we are, because it represents the long arc of
history that led to our existence. It’s the confluence of history and
biology. It’s why Africans are not African-American. It’s also why
Kamala Harris is not a person of color to black Americans.

That’s why Harris was probably the worst choice for Biden. She helps
bring in South Asian money from Silicon Valley. The tech monopolies will
now swing into action in a million little ways to help their co-ethnics.
She will titillate the upper middle-class whites who reliably vote
Democrat. She will turn off blacks, however, who see in her what they
see at the cash-only convenience store in their neighborhood. A
foreigner leap-frogging them in the hierarchy of American identity.

There is another lesson in the Harris story. In the primary, even the
media found her unpleasant, despite being paid by Google to promote her.
Andrew Yang, in contrast, was a likable character, who had no
institutional support, but was able to get grassroots and media support.
According to the yesterday men, he should have got tons of elite
support, based on his race. There are many more East Asians than South
Asians, so by their logic he should have been a great candidate.

The difference between Yang and Harris is South Asians are very tribal,
while East Asians are not very tribal. We see this in genetics and
marriage patterns. India is a beef stew of various tribes, castes and
ethnic groups. China, in contrast, is dominated by Han Chinese. East
Asia tends toward mono-ethnic societies. Put another way, the biology of
South Asia reinforces and encourages extreme identity politics, while
East Asian biology tends to encourage uniformity and conformity.

In America, the East Asians that come here are the least ethnocentric of
their kind, so they look to quickly assimilate. They name their kids Bob
and Sally, take up golf and join the local Christian church. High caste
Indians move here and name their kids Sinjar and Amala. They have a
tandoor clay oven installed in their house and they find a local Hindu
temple to join. In Asia, South Asians are as tribal as Jews are in the
West, while East Asians are about as tribal as white people.

This is why South Asians get one of their own installed on the
Democratic ticket, while East Asians are discriminated against by the
Ivy League. South Asians and Jews are wildly over-represented in elite
institutions, while East Asians and whites are ridiculously
under-represented. So much so that the Democrats are comfortable putting
a bitter bindi on the ticket and giving the affable Andrew Yang the
stiff arm. He will have no role in the coming Democratic convention.

This is the shape of things to come. The Judeo-Puritan ruling class is
now making room for high caste South Asians. Soon, saying anything
unapproved about Indians will be as forbidden as holocaust denial.
Native Americans will no longer be allowed to refer to themselves as
Indians. Whites and East Asians will be the lumpen proletariat of the
new Tribal States of America. Despite having numbers, they lack the
ethnocentrism to make those numbers translate into political power.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
