---
title: "The Price Of Cotton"
date: "2020-05-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20621"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20621"
---

If you are over the age of forty, the current black riots seem like
another bad remake of a bad movie from your youth. You can appreciate
how the young and stupid may be fascinated by it, but you know it is
just pointless destruction by people who are over indulged and
terminally ungrateful. The whites involved, and there are plenty, are
just ridiculous people playing make believe. They are reenactors
dressing up to play a role they read about in their grievance studies
classes.

Further, you know what comes of it. There will be lectures from the
servants of the ruling class about white privilege and the legitimacy of
black rage. The so-called conservatives will grovel and plead. There
will be some candlelight vigils tossed in so the politicians can perform
their public acts of piety. It is the same old story remade by
decreasingly plausible actors. Meanwhile, normal white people just see
their tax for being white go up yet again. It is so tiresome.

All of it, even the sense of exasperation by normal white people, is
just a way to avoid the painful truth about America. If the plantation
owners had simply paid European workers, even Chinese workers, to pick
the damned cotton, none of this ridiculous drama would keep happening.
These riots, like all previous riots and pretty much the last seventy
years of American history, is just the price of cotton. The tax paid by
white people that never goes away and goes up every year.

While that may be a pithy way of putting it, the truth is the endless
racial strife is the result of the Yankee conquerors not dealing with
what they had done. Then as now, the Yankee moralist was long on
proselytizing, but short on conviction. They wanted to end slavery and
enjoyed killing white people to do it, but when it came time to address
the question of what to do with the freed slaves, they abandoned their
pulpits and left the issue to future generations. It remains unresolved.

For going on a century now, the story of America is the endless
proselytizing by the usual suspects about the problems they have
created. The greatest social construct in human history is the
African-America. This a concept for a people who are neither African or
America. These are a people who are totally dependent on white people
for their survival, but bred to hate the people on whom they are
dependent. It is a cancer the country gave itself and refuses to cure.

If after the Civil War, the North had setup a reservation for the freed
slaves in Florida, none of this would be happening. Sure, Florida would
be Haiti right now, but no one cares about Haiti, not even the
descendants of those proselytizing abolitionists who stalk our culture
today. Florida or whatever made up African name the locals gave it,
would be at most, a sad curiosity. Americans would leave their doors
unlocked, stroll around their inner cities and have normal car keys
again.

We have reached the point where the good and decent white people of the
country will be forced to do two things they will not enjoy. One is do
away with the proselytizers and their damned pulpits. That means
overthrowing their morality in order to overthrow their moral claims on
our collective consciousness. Good people are going to have to be rude
and angry. They will have to tell the scolds they don’t care about
racism and they don’t care about the feelings of black people.

Those same good white people are going to have to tell black people,
most of whom are kind and decent, that it is time for a divorce.
Generations of trying to make race relation work has been a failure.
There are no more options left to try other than peaceful separation.
Whatever the cost of implementing the divorce must be paid as it is less
than the constant tax on white people for events that happened over a
century ago now. It is time we go our separate ways.

This is ultimately the price of cotton. Like the cost of cheap labor
today, the cost of slavery is paid by those who never wanted it and
never benefited from it. That’s always the cost of cheap labor. The
employer gets the benefit of the cheap labor and society it gets the
bill. In the case of black slavery, generations of white people, many
with ancestors who came over after the Civil War, have been paying for
the decision to use Africans to pick the cotton.

Divorce is never pleasant. The married couple that goes down that road
is sustained by the thought of what comes next and the relief of not
being burdened by the other. That is what we must do now. Focus the mind
on a world without no-go zones, a time when it is unnecessary to ask the
realtor about the schools and read their face for the truth, a day when
the purple faced loon is not screaming at you about your privilege. The
divorce will be hard, but it has to be better than this.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
