---
title: "The Race Drama"
date: "2020-05-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20613"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20613"
---

One of the features of modern liberal democracy is that everyone is
trapped in a constant present, unaware of both the past and future. The
current black riots, for example, are being described as unprecedented,
when in fact they are a regular feature of American life. Birds fly,
fish swim and blacks riot. Amusingly, the man allegedly responsible for
these riots, President Trump, you know, because of the low black
unemployment, is in office because of the last round of black riots.

In fact, black rioting is one of the regular features of the ongoing
morality play that is modern liberal democracy. The usual suspects,
looking for a reason to get white people to the theater, start scanning
about for some case where a black was harmed by an unsympathetic white.
They create a narrative around the incident, have the stories placed in
the media and then encourage the black “activist groups” to start making
an issue of it. From there, the story writes itself.

The regularization of this is clear when you look up from this incident
and recall that just a few weeks ago we had *Jogger*. This was an
off-Broadway effort to angry-up the blacks, but it failed to catch on.
Blacks were sort of ready to play their role, but only the dumbest white
people fell for it. Those would be the type who declare their pronouns
on social media. Normal white people saw through the plot like a bad
movie and failed to show up at the theater. *Jogger* never made it to
Broadway.

As an aside, you’ll note something about the *Jogger* that goes
unremarked. American blacks are not all that sympathetic to imported
blacks. When some guy with a weird African name gets jammed up, regular
blacks just shrug. The reason is their identity starts with them being
near whites against their will. Despite their relentless demands for
access to white people, black identity starts with the belief that they
are around whites by force. African man violates that narrative.

The general framework of this particular morality tale follows the
approved script of all morality tales in modern America. First, the
usual suspects, or their puppets, announce there is a great danger to
the community. Alternatively, there is some group being harmed and the
community must rally to their defense. Sometimes the two are combined in
a Godzilla attacks Tokyo scenario. The people are then supposed to flood
the theater to be properly scared or angered.

You see this with these Cop-Black tales. The black is always cast as an
innocent victim in the trailer for the show. They find pictures from his
high school yearbook to hand out in the press kits when promoting the
story. We saw that with Trayvon Martin. The media used pics of him as a
child, rather than as a hulking teenager. Jogger was shown in his cap
and gown seven years prior. The cop, in contrast, is never really filled
out as a character, because he is a catspaw for the real villain.

The paradox of these cops versus blacks riot-dramas is that we live in a
country that worships cops. There are dozens of TV shows and movies on
all the time celebrating the cop as the guy guarding the wall between
civilization and barbarity. Usually, the hero cop is required to break
the rules to exact justice. On the one hand, white people are supposed
to see cops as rule breaking moral agents, while blacks are required to
see cops as immoral agents of a system of oppression.

The second act of the morality tale always brings the so-called
conservatives onto the stage to play their part. Normally, they are
required to dismiss the danger or the victim, in order to appear
unfeeling or callous. In this case, the role is changed up. They are
first required to worship a special character created just for these
shows. This is the Magic Negro, who is black, but a conservative! He is
brought on to confirm the wishy-washy civic nationalism stuff popular
with old people.

After the required doses the negrophilia, the conservatives in the crowd
are ready for the usual performance. The conservative character can
either be shocked at the hypocrisy of the Left or outraged by the civil
unrest. In both cases, the underlying assumptions are the same. Racism
is the worst sin, but a sin, ironically, that can only be committed by
white people. As such, the whole point of the citizen’s life must be to
eradicate this sin from their heart and from their community.

Like the Dionysia in ancient Athens, these morality plays are intended
to reinforce the larger moral framework of society. If you step back
from the particulars and look at these race dramas, they are not all
that different from a fire breathing minister telling his flock that
they are all sinners and must redouble their efforts. Instead of
pleasing God, it is the god of democracy. These dramas are a lecture to
whites that they will only be saved when all people are welcomed into
their community.

Of course, that is one of the many paradoxes of modernity. In order for
the morality plays to work there has to be real victims and real
villains. This is why everyone is a racist Nazi now. The supply of
genuine racists and Nazis has evaporated. The only actual racists in
America are not white, which will not do, so the play makers expand the
definition for racist to fit their needs. It also means they
deliberately create villains by manufacturing them when the supply is
low.

In theory, the way out of this endless drama is to simply ignore it. Get
enough white people to stop showing up or even acknowledging these
dramas and the theater runs out of audience members. In reality, this
can never happen, at least not to the extent it changes public morality.
The people running the theater will just force people inside, as we see
with the schools, corporate diversity training and the like. In a libel
democracy, society itself becomes the theater and life is the morality
play.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
