---
title: "Insurrection Then Revolution"
date: "2020-10-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21577"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21577"
---

A popular fantasy among the more edgy conservatives is that one day, the
Left will get the civil war they claim they want and then they’ll get it
good and hard. In this fantasy, those gun-toting, constitution-loving
conservatives will show Lefty why the right to bear arms was enshrined
in the Constitution. It is a popular fantasy on-line, because revenge
fantasies are fun and they provide relief for well-founded frustration.
In reality, the great conflagration will never look like the fantasy.

Civil wars are when two sides in the ruling class cannot find a middle
ground and refuse to give into the other side. The English Civil War,
for example, was a fight between those elites who supported the King and
those who supported Parliament. Sure, commoners were in the mix and rose
in status, but it was largely a war between two factions within the
elite. The same was true of the American Civil War. Slavery was the
pretext, but it was largely an extension of the English Civil War.

Revolutions, on the other hand, are when a new elite overthrows the old
elite, because the old system offers no way for the new elite to join
the elite. The French Revolution is often framed as a peasant rebellion,
but the Jacobins who led the revolt were educated and capable men, a new
elite for a new age. The Bolshevik Revolution was similar, except there
was competition for who would be the new elite. The communists won, so
they got to name the revolution after themselves.

In modern America the ruling class is as unified as it has ever been.
Look around at the high ground of Imperial life and it is hard to find
any dissenters. The revolt within Washington against Trump is a good
example. Factions that have claimed to be opponents work naturally
together to thwart the people’s choice. In fact, genuine dissidents are
presented with a shield wall guarding the high ground of the empire, a
sign of elite unity that is deliberately intimidating.

That said, no ruling elite is as unified as what is being presented. In
fact, these histrionic demands for unity are a sign they fear a lack of
will and unity. The tech oligarchs censuring a mainstream media site is
one of those signs that maybe all is not well on the other side of the
walls. The elite media may be focused on defeating the evil orange man
right now, but they see the danger in what is happening. There are
frictions on the other side that could one day be fissures.

No matter how unified a ruling elite may be, they have certain duties
they must perform in order to remain in power. The reason people allow
themselves to be pushed around is the order provided by even the worst
rulers ensures they have shelter, food and a predictable amount of
safety. Freedom ain’t worth a damn if you cannot attain the essentials
to sustain your life. The big talk about preferring liberty to safety is
just that, as people always choose safety over freedom, if those are the
choices.

When people begin to sense that the invisible bargain between the people
and the ruler is breaking down, that the ruler is not holding up his end
of the bargain, that is the beginning of an insurrection. After all, if
the ruler cannot provide the basics, like food and safety, what’s the
point of having a ruler? Those rooftop Koreans during the Rodney King
riots were the stirrings of insurrection. The militias guarding property
in Kenosha were the flicker of insurrection among the middle-class.

Every ruling elite relies on legitimacy. The people over whom they rule
must accept them as the sovereign. Otherwise, the ruling elite must rely
on force and that is the most expensive form of rule, draining both the
elite and the subjects from whom they extract that which sustains them.
Rule by force is unsustainable. It is why the ruling class must maintain
its legitimacy. The crisis we see today is a crisis of legitimacy, where
a growing portion of the public questions the legitimacy of the system.

If we are ever to get to anything close to that fantasy of those
gun-toting, constitution-loving conservatives, it will first start as an
insurrection. Here and there, people will look around and realize the
state cannot or will not perform its basic functions. If the cops, for
example, refuse to do their job, then people take up arms. If the state
cannot run the schools properly, people pull their kids from them.
Individually these acts are trivial, but collectively they change the
public consciousness.

It is not just among the Dirt People that we are seeing signs of
insurrection. We see states refusing to abide by federal law. We see
cities in open revolt against the national and state government over
policing. Federal judges are refusing to abide by the rules of the
court, over ruling legitimate actions by the President. This <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Revolt-Elites-Betrayal-Democracy/dp/0393313719"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">revolt of the elites</a> is
more like an insurrection within the elite. They no longer accept the
legitimacy of the system that allows them to be an elite.

This is the soil of revolution. On the one hand, you have the people
seeing a breakdown of that invisible bargain between themselves and
their rulers. Basic things like road maintenance, policing and public
order are not being done. On the other hand, you have members of the
elite who no longer accept the authority of the system in which they
function, causing that system to further breakdown. American is a
machine that is breaking down and no one wants to repair it.

There is a small caveat to that. There is a core of heritage Americans
who do want to fix the machine, but they are now treated as an enemy by
the elites. The civic nationalists calling for reform are treated as
subversives, enemies of the state, by the people controlling the
apparatus of the state. Increasingly, the people are viewing them as
fools for thinking there is any way back to the old normal. The civic
nationalist is quickly becoming the royalist of this age.

Not all insurrections result in revolution. Insurrections are quelled
either by the firm smack of authority from a unified and confident
ruling class or through the careful reform of that ruling elite in
response to the insurrection. This is the crossroads in which America
now stands. Will the elite unify and crack down on the people or will
they begin the process of imposing long overdue reforms on themselves?
Or, has that ship already sailed and we headed for insurrection then a
revolution?

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="CNh41u2uLgA6u8l0di19lQ==cb7rGq+60m9t3f32c+WLHd3FoIPQL7cv2oWC1Ek1j28lyuZXe7wi4rpmrgowFtFCDpi"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="1i0YV2NMHVz3P6PMPKeXFw==cb7Zxsswgozj7kGZGGgxvuCrXc8IQdnqtLKwhL+IKfR0NmZiBNmvDNxGUtGL7LcKRxP"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
