---
title: "Our Emmanuel Goldstein"
date: "2020-01-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19551"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19551"
---

One of the best observations Orwell had about totalitarian society is
had to have an opponent, against which everyone must rally. It was not
just a practical opponent, like another country. The forever bad guy had
to have a spiritual dimension. In opposing the bad guy, the members of
the society established their commitment to the cause and thus their
standing in society. Emmanuel Goldstein in the Novel *1984* and Snowball
in the novella *Animal Farm* are his famous examples.

Of course, modern totalitarian states are almost always the result of
some mass movement that swept to power. Their ascent was either based on
their promise to reform or their ability to demolish the prevailing
order. Eric Hoffer noted that “mass movements can rise and spread
without belief in a God, but never without belief in a devil.” The
bogeymen in the Orwell novels were such devils. They were the center of
the moral universe for the totalitarian society.

The important part of this bogeyman role is that the bad guy cannot
simply be a man with whom you can reason or even conquer. The bad guy
has to have supernatural abilities and maybe be unconquerable. In the
*1984*, Emmanuel Goldstein is powerful enough to cause all of the
regimes troubles and smart enough to avoid getting caught by the party.
The value of the supernatural enemy is that they can never truly be
defeated, so they are a convenient scapegoat.

This is something to keep in mind with the bizarre obsession the ruling
class has with Russian meddling. Like The Brotherhood in *1984*, the
concept of Russian election meddling was a fabrication by the inner
party of America. Initially it was just part of the widespread seditious
plot to overturn the 2016 election. It was the excuse to explain the
criminal shenanigans. The media was tasked with spreading the concept
and it became a part of the collective reality by the time Trump was in
office.

Despite the fact that no one has every provided actual evidence the
Russians or anyone other than the Israelis and Saudis have interfered in
our elections, the Russian meddling meme persists. The Left is
captivated by it. So much so the inner party feels they must persist in
the charade. <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-01-10/u-s-probes-if-russia-targeting-biden-in-2020-election-meddling"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">This story</a> is a great
example. In order to keep the true believers excited, the FBI squanders
money in phony investigations into Russian election meddling. They would
be better served hunting UFO’s.

Russia has become the Emmanuel Goldstein of current year America.
Whenever things go wrong for the inner party, they blame Russia. If
that’s not practical, they shift the focus to Russian in some other way.
Maybe it is Russian meddling in the Middle East or South America. When a
party member is struggling, as we see with Biden, then it must be the
work of those evil Russians. You can be sure that is trump wins in 2020,
we will get another round of “Russian hacking” allegations.

As with the Orwell figures, the Russian conspiracy stuff is not just
about the practical things vexing the party. There is a moral dimension
to it. “You are a Putin defender” has become one of the worst things a
true believer can say to someone. Whenever the party member or even just
a true believer is confronted with disconfirming facts, they
instinctively suspect the person confronting them is allied with Russia.
Just put the phrase “Tucker Carlson Russia” into Google.

This behavior would suggest we are in a soft version of the totalitarian
states described by Orwell in the last century. There’s plenty of
evidence to support that claim, but the lack of organization by the
inner party suggests another possible explanation. That is, the inner
party of the true believers operate like a school of fish. When one fish
responds to something, the other fish respond. The beautiful ballet of
the school of fish or flock of birds looks like design, but it is pure
instinct.

The thing that holds the ruling class together is a shared morality that
not only defines them, but gives purpose to their lives. The
Judeo-Puritan morality of the American ruling class runs on shared
believe, not central coordination. The Judeo side cannot not stop
obsessing over their ancestral homelands in the Pale of Settlement. All
of those old grudges remain fresh. The Puritan side is always in a life
and death battle with Old Scratch, the forever tempter of the righteous.

Put the two together and the evolving those of the inner party has
turned a relatively backward country between Europe and Asia into the
great villain. It give purpose to their lives and justifies their
actions. Whatever Russian does, they must oppose, but whatever they
oppose, they assume Russia supports. This asynchronous relationship
between themselves and the devil is the center of their moral universe.
Literally, who they are is the opposition to Russian meddling.

**Note:** Some have asked why comments end up in moderation. This is the
doings of the spam filter I’m using. It is often triggered by epithets,
certain links and mysterious word combinations. These messages get
flagged as possible spam. Now, in half a dozen years it has blocked over
3.5 million spam messages, so it is trade-off I accept. It means I check
the moderation queue once an hour or so. I approve the real comments and
trash the spam. Otherwise, there is no moderation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
