---
title: "A Gay Old Time"
date: "2020-02-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19845"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19845"
---

The Democrat primary season is living up to its promise of being a
stinging indictment of modern democracy. Thus far, they have staged two
election shows. The first one was a disaster, as the party was unable to
properly rig the results, so they effectively cancelled the whole thing.
The second time they instructed the media to spend all their time
celebrating the king, as it were, of participation trophies for his
exemplary participation in the New Hampshire primary, while ignoring the
winner.

Putting aside the clownishness of the show thus far, the New Hampshire
primary is rather symbolic of the ruling class decay. Biden was propped
up for almost a year as the face of the party center. He was supposed to
be the guy, who was the moderate’s first choice and everyone else’s
second choice. Blacks would support him as a proxy for Obama. The
remaining whites would support “Working Class Joe.” Even the Bernie Bros
would fall in line behind a traditional left-wing candidate.

In reality, Biden was a doddering old fool, who said embarrassing things
in public when he had all of his marbles. No amount of media support and
fake polling was going to convince people to support a guy about to keel
over at any minute. Instead, the various tribes of the party were left
to seek their own standard. That’s what we have witnessed this far. The
Democratic coalition is coming apart as the camps dig in behind their
candidate to the exclusion of others.

Pete Buttigieg is the millennial candidate in every way. Most likely his
support came from his age cohort. Further, it was heavily female, with
the male portion being the sorts, who support the case against consuming
soy products. On the other hand, Klobuchar is picking up the old Hillary
vote. These are the old hens, who think having a female president is the
only thing that matters. Her bitchy obnoxiousness reminds them of every
fight they won with their ex-husband.

That is the democratic coalition right now. On the one hand it is
spoiled, entitled millennial voters. On the other it is their divorced
mothers. Sure, blacks, Hispanics, legacy whites and bronze age
communists are there, but the people who run the party are of the two
groups rallying to Buttigieg and Klobuchar. Those other groups are just
accessories. They always have been, but now it is becoming explicit.
None of the top-tier candidates have any appeal outside honkyville.

The obvious exception to all of this is the Sanders tribe. For most of
the 20th century, this group was carefully sidelined by a party that
understood they needed their support, but could never let them on the
stage. The Bernie faction was like the alcoholic brother that no one
discussed. They were not hated, but everyone in the party hated the
embarrassment they caused in polite company. The restraints are off now,
so those freaks and weirdos are free to run wild in the public square.

In fairness, there is a parallel between the Bernie Bros and the
populists who came out for Trump in the 2016 primaries. Much of Trump’s
support was rooted in the decades of broken promises from conservatives.
Similarly, the Bernie Bros feel cheated by a party that has promised
them the worker’s paradise for decades. There is a strong
anti-establishment vibe to the support for Sanders. The difference is
that Trump was a genuine novice, while Sander is an old political
warhorse.

That’s an important thing for dissidents to remember while watching this
circus play out over the next few months. Some people in our ranks will
talk about how the Bernie Bros are headed for a great awakening about
modern politics. It will be analogous to what some on our side have
learned in their disappointment over Trump. That’s self-indulgent
nonsense. The invisible army of disaffected whites that came out for
Trump was never under any illusions about him. They knew he was a
protest vote.

Further, the Bernie Bros are not going to have their red pill moment
when their guy gets robbed of the nomination. If he somehow gets the
nomination, the Bernie Bros will not wake up to the reality of the Left
when they run their “The Case Against Sanders” post in the New York
Times. Unlike disaffected whites, the Sanders faction actually enjoys
being treated like dirt by the party. They are the dog that barks like
mad at the mailman from behind the door. The door is what really
matters.

Putting all of that aside, the brewing chaos in the 2020 election is not
a sign of a system breaking down, but the natural result of a society
being destroyed. The project of pitting one group of whites against
another can only end one way. That is a war between whites resulting in
a fracturing of the white demographic. This plays to the interest of
minority groups, which become just another tribe in the neighborhood.
The two-party system cannot work in a balkanized, minority rule society.

More important, perhaps, is the cosmopolitan ruling class cannot
function as designed in such a society. The managerial state needs the
illusion of popular support and meritocratic success. That’s hardly
possible when the only thing the people agree upon is their hatred of
the ruling elite. The system cannot hold up when the various tribes are
not permitted to have their guys in the system. It turns out that what
allows the managerial state to establish itself will be what destroys
it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
