---
title: "Quantity & Quality"
date: "2020-01-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19743"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19743"
---

Minority populations in any society have faced the twin problems of
expulsion and absorption by the majority population. On the one hand,
they need to play an important enough role to be needed by the majority,
but not become a threat. On the other hand, they need to maintain enough
separation between themselves and the majority in order to keep their
people from fully assimilating and disappearing. Assimilation in
America, for example, has erased much of late 19th century immigration.

The Amish are a popular example used by people interested in demography
as well as human behavior. Beginning in the early 18th century, these
mostly German Anabaptists began moving from southwestern Germany to
Pennsylvania. They were rural people, so they settled into rural parts
of the colony as farmers. They setup their unique communities and exist
to this day as a unique and separate minority. Amish in America number
about four hundred thousand.

A theory for why this tiny minority that lives outside modernity has
managed to survive is that they have become more Amish over time. That
is, the traits that make them Amish have become more intense in the
population. This has been a natural counter to the increasing pressure
of the modern world, which seeks to homogenize everything to death. As
the tentacles of cosmopolitan globalist get stronger, this defense
mechanism of the Amish has grown stronger as well.

The theory works something like this. Let’s assume a range of Amishness
that runs from one to ten. One is the least Amish and ten is the most
Amish. In the early years, the average Amishness of the group was around
five. Some people were attracted to the community for reasons other than
the rural, separatist lifestyle. Others were extremely attracted to the
whole package that defines the Amish community. Let’s assume a normal
distribution of Amishness in the community.

Over time, the people closer to the low end of the scale would peel off
for one reason or another, deciding to leave the community. The sorts
that were just in it for religious reasons would find a community of
people who shared their beliefs, but also engaged in the modern world.
Every generation, the people lacking the Amish trait would be tempted to
leave the community. In time, the average Amishness would increase as
the low score left and the high score multiplied.

This is not just a cultural issue. There is a biological component. Just
as height is a function of genes, personality traits are also rooted in
our genes. This unique sense of belonging was most likely part of this
people before they embraced their particular religion in the
Reformation. Inside the group, the more intensely Amish will be more
fertile, while the rest will be less productive. Every generation, the
most Amish of the Amish would outnumber the least Amish, increasing over
all Amishness.

That’s the very shorthand version of what is called [boiling
off](https://westhunt.wordpress.com/2012/12/23/boiling-off/). Something
similar has probably been happening with ultra-orthodox Jews. Those Jews
with the traits that are selected for by the cult rise in status, get
married to a female inside the cult and have lots of children. Those
lacking these traits, are not only less desirable, but less interested
in wearing fur hats in summer. They will be less likely to marry a
member of the cult and reproduce. They may leave and take their genes
with them.

These populations of ultra-orthodox Jews have developed a natural
barrier between themselves and the host society. Anyone who has had
dealings with the ultra-orthodox knows they are like space aliens. In
fact, they are like extremely obnoxious space aliens, who seem to
oblivious to their surroundings. Their hostility to outsiders is so
intense and instinctive, it presents a barrier between them and everyone
else. Even other Jews, maybe especially other Jews, find them impossible
to tolerate.

This raises the question as to whether some form of this has played out
in the more secular Jewish community. Ethnocentrism most certainly has
biological roots, growing out of endogamy, the habit of marrying within
the group. This was true of Ashkenazim for a long time until they
reached America. In the 20th century, these Jews were faced with a set
of conditions for which they had no natural defense. That is, they faced
no strong hostility from the majority society.

Beginning in the middle of the 20th century, the Ashkenazim could marry
outside the group and participate in all aspects of society. The result
being lots of the less Jewish members simply blending into the
surrounding population. First, they lost their connection to the faith
and then they lost their connection to the identity. Lots of Americans
have a Jewish grandparent or great grandparent, but have no connection
to Judaism or Jewish identity. That was lost in the past.

Unlike the Amish or ultra-orthodox, over all fertility among Jews has
plummeted, so the highly ethnocentric are not producing children faster
than Jews are defecting. The overall size of the Jewish community has
declined of late and current fertility numbers suggests a sharp drop in
this century. Still, if the highly ethnocentric marry within the group,
the result over time could be an increase in ethnocentrism. Those with
strong Jewish identity will be the those with extreme ethnocentrism.

Of course, without the more secular and assimilated Jews around to
police the ranks for excessive expressions of ethnocentrism, the
hyper-Jews begin to dominate. That could be why the modern media age
seems to be festooned with Jews like Michelle Goldberg and Ben Shapiro.
There are no moderate Jews around to muzzle these people or at least
moderate them. From the perspective of outsiders, these extreme voices
of ethnocentrism become the voice of the entire Jewish community.

This raises another angle. As America becomes majority-minority, the
same sorts of pressures will shape white populations. Southern whites,
for example, will probably become more Southern. Those with a strong
sense of community will marry others with the same traits and have lots
of kids. The Southern whites, who wish to live as urbanite bugmen, will
head off to urban areas to die. This will repeat in all regions and over
time, the regional culture will become more intense.

That’s not the only possibility, of course, but it is good reminder that
numbers are not all that matters in demographics. The Amish have
survived in a hostile world by becoming more intensely Amish. Jews have
survived all over the world through endogamy and ethnocentrism. Cultural
and spiritual intensity, like fanaticism, are force multipliers. They
allow small groups to punch well about their numbers, even less
intelligent people like the gypsies.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
