---
title: "The Primitives"
date: "2020-06-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20709"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20709"
---

It is hard to gain perspective on the current crisis, due mostly to the
mayhem and chaos that fills the screens of our life. Every day brings a
new outrage. For a normal person, daily events are like drinking from a
fire hose. First comes the howling from the usual suspects, then once
that abates, it is the mob descending on the streets or on the life of a
white person. Then more howling from the usual suspects, followed by the
orgy of violence. The cycle just keeps repeating.

If you step back and take a look at things, one of the things that
stands out is just how primitive and superstitious the people are at the
center of this crisis. It is not just in their appearance either. The
new religion that has emerged among our rulers is not a great leap
forward in consciousness, but a leap backward. It is primitive,
superstitious and simplistic in its statements and actions. It is as if
the world has been taken over by an ancient tribe of primitives who hate
us.

Take a look at the frenzy, among the nation’s circus performers, to
lecture the rest of us about their goodness and our wickedness. The
sportsball leagues have been the most egregious in this, as they are
actively alienating their customers in an effort to appease a
constituency that does not exist. NASCAR seems to be under the
impression that the people burning down Wendy’s will one day be
tailgating at Talladega. It is live action role playing combined with
wishcasting into a marketing campaign.

Beyond the self-indulgent fantasies, take a look at
<a href="https://twitter.com/NFL/status/1271201330963480576"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this heroic statement</a> from
the National Football League. The point of this effort is to tell the
peasants, otherwise known as customers, that the league is in a life or
death struggle with the dark forces of systemic racism and historic
injustice. These twin evils are why the league exists, not the pointless
entertainment. The singular focus of the people running the NFL is the
final defeat of this great enemy of democracy!

Notice that no one ever bothers describing these terms.
<a href="https://time.com/5851855/systemic-racism-america/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">The closest you get</a> with
systemic racism is “discrimination against black Americans is embedded
in the political, economic and social structure of the country.” The
implication here is that we have secret rules and laws that prevent
blacks from doing something. They have to be secret, as we have spent
three generations now erasing every rule, regulation and law that allows
for any personal preference among white people.

The way around the absolute lack of evidence in support of
discrimination is to treat it as a miasma that permeates white society
like a fog. You see, you don’t even know you are an evil bigot because
you are immersed in a racist system. It is a primitive form of communal
salvation. Instead of blaming the drought on unidentified sinners in the
village, the complete backwardness of black people is the fault of evil
spirits that animate the institutions of modern society.

This primitiveness turns up all over the new religion. High paid
activists on cable chat shows preach about the need for Americans,
especially the white people who make the country possible, to repudiate
their history of structural racism. That’s usually done in the context
of the statue toppling or the desecration of cemeteries. Apparently, the
twin monsters of systemic racism and historic injustice really hate it
when a collection of brown savages topple over a statue on YouTube.

Let’s take these claims at face value. Let’s assume the way forward is
for white people to have a group struggle session in which every bit of
the past is repudiated. What happens after that is over? What is
supposed to happen at that point? Will the clouds part and a new era of
peace and harmony descend upon us from the heavens? Will all of the
stuff that makes modern life possible stop working? After all, if you
are repudiating the past, it must mean abandoning the works of the past,
right?

Of course, no one knows and there is no point in speculating about these
things, other than for entertainment purposes. The reductionists among
us want to pretend that the people behind these spasms of lunacy seek
power or they are trying to undermine Trump in the election. Small minds
need to personalize things this way. In reality, the people behind what
we are seeing live unexamined lives. They are caught up in this for the
same reason people join religious cults.

The beautiful people from the NFL marketing offices don’t want to think
about how it is they get to live like royalty by staging mock battles
between gangs of black men for the amusement of white people. It is much
easier to hoot about structural racism. The same is true of the people
behind NASCAR. These people hate their fans, but they depend on them for
lives of excess. These primitive howls about confederate symbols are a
pressure relief valve for this conflict in their lives.

The primitiveness of this new faith is probably the appeal. Unlike a
sophisticated religion that makes demands upon the mind of the believer,
this new religion works for even the dumbest person. They just have to
chant some meaningless phrases and begin smashing things up on their
YouTube channel. It is another example of how liberal democracy cheapens
and degrades everything it touches. Even the religion of it becomes a
degenerate and artificial form of the original.

That may be the final irony of liberal democracy. This self-destructive
ideology eventually reduces the most ardent adherents to simpletons,
incapable of performing the basics required to keep the system running.
Given the choice between a world run by howling primitives, rushing
about smashing everything in sight, and any other form of rule, people
will choose the latter. At some point, the people fear the primitives
more than anything else, so anything else becomes the best option.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
