---
title: "The Psychological War"
date: "2020-09-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21316"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21316"
---

Up until not so long ago it was possible to argue that the political
divide in America was over means rather than ends. Both sides had the
same general goal, but they disagreed upon the course needed to get
there. Alternatively, the debate was over the best possible end, which
is an extension of the same debate. The fights that ensued were over the
facts and the interpretation of the facts. Somewhere along the way, that
changed and the debate is now centered on propaganda.

A good current example is the Breonna Taylor issue in Louisville. For
the longest time, the mass media has claimed that cops murdered her for
no reason. They executed a “no-knock warrant” and just opened fire,
killing her in the process. This led to riots in Louisville and
contributed to the summer of mayhem. It turns out that none of that was
true and the Breonna Taylor story was a complete lie. The only thing
true about it was the names of the people involved.

This is a familiar pattern in these cases. First, we get the incident,
which often goes unnoticed by the mass media. Then sometime later the
story bursts on the scene with an official narrative and a media kit,
which always includes images of the victim from when they were young. In
an instant, every hair-hat in the media is chanting the same lines over
top the same canned video. A mob is then ginned up wherever it happened
and the authorities then rush to jail some white guy.

Go back to the Trayvon Martin story and you see the same operation.
First there was the well-orchestrated media campaign. Then we got
protests followed by famous blacks showing solidarity by wearing
hoodies. The famous blacks are heralded by the media for their courage.
Then we learned that Trayvon Martin was not a boy, but a man who was
bashing the head of George Zimmerman against the curb. The whole thing
was a carefully choreographed propaganda campaign.

The thing about patterns is they usually indicate some common agent
upstream from the observable pattern. In this case, it is becoming clear
that a well-financed group is working in the shadows to create these
incidents. Before the grand jury announcement in the Breonna Taylor
case, someone shot video of a U-Haul truck full of riot accessories
being unloaded in Louisville. The renter was
<a href="https://twitter.com/TaraLaRosa/status/1308870646391336960"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">easily identified</a> by the
identification numbers on the side of the truck.

It has been clear for some time that left-wing groups were involved in
the civil unrest going on around the country. Groups like Antifa started
showing up at Black Lives Matter protests in Portland and Seattle. The
assumption has been that various left-wing groups have been drawn to
these incidents, looking to take advantage of the situation in order to
push their agenda. In other words, you get the incident, then the unrest
and then the left-wing groups flooding the zone.

In reality, the order is reversed. It is increasingly clear that
well-financed agitators are creating the incidents. They prepare the
media kits, organize the mobs and then supply them with riot equipment.
Then they use the media coverage, which is all based on the media kits,
to rope in support from famous rich people. A century ago, bourgeois
radicals joined the communist party in order to feel special. Today they
provide bail money to rioters. The useful idiot is a constant.

There are two important take-a-ways from this bit of reality. One is the
people behind this stuff are playing a long game. It takes years to
build out the infrastructure to orchestrate something like this. It is
impossible to do this in every city, which is why it has been the
far-left strongholds hit with these riots. The one exception is
Louisville, but maybe that was targeted for other reasons. Regardless,
this has been a long-term project orchestrated by sophisticated players.

The second take-a-way is that the authorities are either compromised and
unwilling to dig into these networks or incapable of doing it. The top
of the country’s domestic intelligence pyramid is obsessed with <a
href="https://www.politico.com/news/2020/09/04/white-supremacists-terror-threat-dhs-409236"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">right-wing extremism</a>, a
thing that is about as real as leprechauns riding unicorns. Maybe this
is deliberate or maybe the people at the top are so disconnected from
reality they think it is real. Either way, this has flowed down through
the system. No one is looking behind these riots.

Not to put too fine a point on it, but the fact that internet sleuths
are better at finding and identifying radicals caught on video than the
police and FBI is important. This tubby women behind the U-Haul truck
caper is a great example. Surely the cops see this stuff and report it
to their superiors. Detectives could discover who owns or rented the
vehicle without leaving their desk. Yet, time after time, it is internet
detectives who locate the people behind some incident caught on video.

Where we find ourselves now is in a world where well-organized and
financed domestic terror groups are operating with impunity in major
cities. The government at all levels is either unable or unwilling to
confront it. Again, it is not as if there is a mystery as to who is
writing the checks to these radical networks. In cases where it is
murky, a search warrant would clear it up. If the people in charge
wanted to put an end to the unrest, they could do so tomorrow.

That is another clue. There’s no doubt that just as the Soviet Union was
able to compromise swaths of the Western ruling class, these radical
actors have been able to co-opt segments of the American Left. That
means internal resistance within the ruling class to looking at who is
behind this stuff. The Soviets had agents all the way into the White
House in the FDR years. It is not unreasonable to think that radical
actors and fellow travelers operate within the administrative state.

There may also be a mix of naivete and stupidity. What has happened this
year is right out of the handbook on psychological warfare. There are
the hundreds of little lies seeded in the popular culture, which in turn
make the big lies more plausible, but more outrageous when they are
discovered. The point of these operations is to destroy social trust and
trust in the ruling class. Someone or a collection of someones is waging
a psychological warfare and our rulers don’t see it.

Alternatively, instead of the political class being the pawns, it is the
American people being used as pawns in some great game among the ruling
class. The rioters are just useful idiots, used as stage props in a
media campaign. That’s certainly possible, but does anyone think <a
href="https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4909220/user-clip-nadler-poops-pants"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">these people</a> are that
clever? Even if these people are just pawns themselves, it still leads
back to the same place. We are in the midst of a psychological war on
the country and no one is fighting back.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston,
titanium wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering
readers a fifteen percent discount. With the holidays around the corner,
you may be looking for a gift for the right-wing person in your life. If
you click
on <a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>, you
get a fifteen percent discount on purchases. I know nothing about
jewelry, but I have to say their stuff looks pretty cool. I’m a plain
guy, so the subtlety of their designs appeals to my aesthetic.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">
If you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="4tkzkgoIMxERpwp/oVHxeQ==cb7PxRWMppt6jLvsZ9luQKk+1jvwswp7P9N9pRHW+V2kP2VJZHTKwvqHxb98TuQ1B7M"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="IFIs8gob9iLhpd/lSJJ+fA==cb7MSsosvHGYCuh0w5S9v7CgTpjl+5hZtwff22I4r5LG0PotihHNElgeA5f5fbPH8dO"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>
.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
