---
title: "Cosmopolitan Provincials"
date: "2020-04-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20293"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20293"
---

In a time of crisis, whether self-inflicted or naturally occurring, you
learn a lot about people in how they react to the crisis. They say
pressure reveals character, but in the context of something like this
pandemic crackdown, pressure reveals your place in relation to the
center of cosmopolitan globalism. Not in a physical sense, but in the
economic and cultural sense of it. The closer you are to the center, the
more enthusiastic you are for the mandatory shuttering of society.

It is one of those things that transcends politics, in that you see
people who normally disagree sharing the same side now. The people
involved in political media, for example, are all on-board with the
crackdown. In fact, they think it should go on forever, as it gives them
something to squabble about in a meaningless way. The people in the vast
unproductive sector of the economy, like the media and politics, have no
stake in the economy, so this is just another thing to fill their time.

In another sense, the cultural sense, this event has revealed the
provincialism of the typical city dweller. It is fair to say that if the
hot spot for the virus had been Appalachia, it would barely rate a
segment on the cable chat shows. Because the center was New York City,
the home of the media centers, it is the only thing worth discussing.
The most provincial people on earth live in New York City and media
people are some of the dumbest, making for the perfect storm.

For example, the people protesting the crackdown are people with a real
stake in society, as in a job and bills to pay. They are not motivated
by esoteric debates about political philosophy. They don’t have a
walk-in closet full of moral signifiers they use to display their
membership in narrow identity groups. They just try to live their lives
the best they can under the conditions set for them. The conditions are
becoming untenable now, so they are making as much noise as they can
about it.

The typical cosmopolitan looks at these protests and just assumes the
people doing them are ignorant and confused. “Don’t they know how
dangerous it is out there?” the cosmopolitans incredulously demand. The
fact is, the protesters know exactly how dangerous it is out there – not
very dangerous at all – and they are willing to bet on their own
judgement about it. The cosmos, on the other hand, know only what is
told to them by the mass media. They let the system decide these things
for them.

That is one of those things that does not always turn up when times are
easy. If you live in or around an urban center, you grow used to being
bossed around. You get used to depending on the system. The Manhattan
media employee rides subways, walks past cops and relies on a vast
system to supply her with food. She thinks she is tech savvy because she
has a lot of cool apps on her iPhone. In reality, she is like an
oxpecker living on the rhinovirus of the cosmopolitan system.

In contrast, the guy living in a distant suburb or flyover country
spends most of his time away from the state. He depends on the supply
chain, like everyone else, to put stuff in the stores, but he works in
the supply chain. He has some idea how the stuff magically appears on
the shelves. He drives his own car to those stores and has to rely on
himself to get it repaired when necessary. His days are not filled with
self-actualizing, but rather the mundane tasks of living.

Real or imagined, the person living far away from the epicenter of
cosmopolitan globalism has a sense of independence. Government is not a
visible part of his everyday existence, so he does not instinctively
trust it. The boys and girls living outside the economy, whether on a
campus, in a government job or in some corner of the vast, unproductive
part of the economy, they trust the system completely. They have to,
because it provides so much of what makes up their life.

Who is more deluded about reality is debatable. We may get to find out
if the crackdown lasts much longer. Parts of the supply chain are
breaking. It will not be long before shelves are empty of essentials.
The people sure they can make it without government may get to test that
theory. On the other hand, the cosmos living in the urban areas will
find out if the system that makes their life possible can protect them.
Cosmopolitan globalism is about to enter the blast furnace of reality.

This raises a question, of course. The system imagined for us by our
ruling elites is highly urbanized and dominated by the government and
its agents. Social credit systems may be run by tech companies, but they
do so on behalf of the same people who control government. They imagine
the future being a cleaner, glass and steel version of Manhattan, where
people are like corpuscles in the system. In such a system, does it make
sense to maintain the charade of democracy?

The current crisis gives us a hint. The people constantly yapping about
“our democracy” were quick to pull the plug on the primaries. If you’re
willing to send cops after people walking on the beach, just to make a
point about who decides who can go outside, you’re probably going to
have no qualms about ending the voting charade. What’s the point of
asking the people when you don’t really care what they think? You can be
sure that the urban rubes will go along with it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
