---
title: "Drama In The Time Of Corona"
date: "2020-03-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20077"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20077"
---

*First, I want to thank my family for being with me through all of this.
I could not get through this without them. This has been a trying time
for all of us. I’m here today to announce that I have tested positive
for the coronavirus. I’m coming forward in the hope that I will continue
to inspire people suffering from this horrible burden to keep bravely
fighting and dreaming. I also hope this will help break the stigma white
men have attached to this condition and the sufferers of it…*

That is a little taste of what will no doubt be a feature of our lives
in the coming week, as famous people take turns staring in their own
corona drama. It has already started a bit, with people like Tom Hanks
and others announcing they have tested COV-positive, but the flood gates
will surely open once we run out of hoarding stories. You can be sure
that musical performers are plotting some sort of corona-aid
performance, perhaps done on-line, to draw attention to themselves.

We live in an age in which everything is a performance. Not just any
performance, of course, but a morality tale. The “famous person making
the dramatic announcement to the public” version is pretty common.
Twenty years ago, famous homosexuals would have dramatic coming out
ceremonies. Some would make a drama of announcing they got the AIDS. The
point of the performance is for the actor to get both sympathy and
admiration for being a heroic victim, bravely fighting on.

Our politicians got in on the act in a serious way back during the
Exploding Mohammad pandemic of the last decade. Whenever a random
Mohamed would detonate in a public place, the politicians would organize
a public piety festival. They would lock arms and march around
symbolizing unity. Maybe there would be a candlelight vigil. The candle
makers really boomed in the exploding Mohamed times. The media would
show a few cute white girls crying and hugging at the event.

Ceremony and ritual, of course, are essential elements of every human
society, even the most primitive ones. The point is to reinforce and
refresh the shared reality we call our common culture. Ceremony reminds
us of the rules that define us as a people and the ritual ties us to the
history that made those rules. The point of them, often the explicit
point, is to strengthen the rules that not only bind the people to one
another, but legitimize the social order and the people at the top of
it.

Those dramatic arm-locking displays by politicians after a Mohamed
exploded were about making sure no one questioned the people in charge
and the logic of importing these exploding Mohameds. Similarly, the
celebrity announcing that they are the victim of something, real or
[imaginary](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/early-lead/wp/2017/05/31/lapd-investigating-vandalism-at-lebron-jamess-house-as-possible-hate-crime/),
is about social signaling. The celebrity is free-riding on some trend in
order to bolster their status as a famous person. They are a good person
and deserve to be rich, famous and influential.

We are seeing a version of this as local officials compete with one
another to see who can impose the most outlandish conditions on people.
First someone banned public events, which led to everyone doing it. Then
it was public gatherings, even private ones, then the forced closure of
retail establishments. Now you have [this
loon](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/illinois-mayor-signs-executive-order-granting-power-to-ban-sale-of-guns-and-alcohol-while-addressing-coronavirus)
banning gun and alcohol sales. Not to be outdone, [San
Francisco](https://www.tmz.com/2020/03/16/san-francisco-coronavirus-lockdown-curfew-three-weeks/)
is banning people from leaving their homes. The city’s bum population is
exempted, of course.

The people doing this put on their best concern face and bravely march
to the nearest bank of cameras to perform their serious act. You see,
they really don’t want to do this and they regret having to make such a
big deal of it. It’s just that events have forced them to bravely impose
a huge cost on others so they can get some public adulation and the
dopamine rush that comes from it. You haters out there snickering are
just running dog lackeys of the coronavirus!

Of course, the reason we have a panic right now is the politicians have
been influenced by the expert drama queens. These are the people who
play experts on cable chat shows and internet sites. They come up with
impressive looking claims about how this will be an unprecedented
plague, not seen in human history. Never mind that these people have
been wrong about everything in the past. We don’t have time for that.
The world is at risk unless we act now! The crowd cheers and the curtain
closes.

If the lunatics in charge do manage to pull the roof down on
civilization this time, it will be a fitting final act to our [Dionysian
age](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=18116). Politics is always about
morality, but in a democracy, it is a never-ending morality play. The
various actors appeal to our emotions, rather than our reason or even
our self-interest. The winner is the one who gets the loudest applause.
That always comes from wringing as much emotion from the crowd as
possible. The good pol always leaves them in tears.

Compounding it, we live in an age of plenty. Well, we used to. The
post-scarcity age removes the obvious reasons for having a ruling class.
That means the people in charge, especially the petty tyrants of local
government, must always find reasons to remind the public that they are
still needed. That means manufacturing crisis and drama. Every change in
the weather is now anthropomorphized. Light rains storm Harvey now
requires schools to close and people to shelter in place.

That’s what we are seeing with the corona show. Public officials and
their suddenly famous science people are performing their role in a live
action role playing game called pandemic. Instead of having a paintball
retreat, the ruling class is forcing the rest of us to skip work and
hoard toilet paper. They get to feel like heroes, while the rest of us
wonder if we will be standing in bread lines next month. Rest assured
though; our nations actors will be okay. They are brave and concerned.

Part of what makes this work is that some portion of the public is
willing to play the role of concern troll, the usher that tells members
of the audience to behave. When someone points out the idiocy of a
curfew in San Francisco, a city with tens of thousands of bums crapping
in the streets, there is someone in the crowd to lecture him about the
seriousness of the situation. Over the next weeks, everyone will be
hectored by these idiots on social media and in their daily lives.

In the end, something that has been obvious for a long time, but is now
becoming quite clear, is that this process ends with a real crisis. The
final act leads to a real threat to society and the real need for
competent leaders. If they do manage to crash the system this time,
public tolerance for girl politicians suddenly drops to zero. Everyone
suddenly figures out what things really cost and the price of the public
drama queen makes them a prohibitive leisure item in a time of want.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
