---
title: "Sports Bowl Thoughts"
date: "2020-02-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19795"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19795"
---

The big Super Bowl extravaganza has come and gone. The television people
will tell us that this one, like all the others, was the most watched
event ever. They say that every year, but whether it is true or not is
hard to know. Television ratings are like everything else about modern
times. You have to assume they are a part of the endless fire hose of
lies that come from the propaganda organs. Even so, most people watched
it and are expected to talk about it the next day with coworkers.

That is the one unique thing about this extravaganza versus others.
There is strong social pressure to participate in the festivities. If
you are white, no one expects you to follow the NBA, but you’re not
expected to watch the World Series or the Stanley Cup Playoffs either.
No one talks about the ads placed in these events or the pop stars that
perform at them. The Super Bowl is the one unique event that is intended
to be for everyone to one degree or another.

How many people actually watch the game is hard to know. Lots of people
are at parties for the game and that means partying rather than
watching. The game is just an excuse to get together with friends, day
drink and cook outside in winter. Many people watch just for the ads,
which are often quite clever. The game itself is mostly ads. The
four-hour show is probably close to two hours of ads. The sideshows are
often just ads for something or someone, but made up to look like
entertainment.

For this reason, the Super Bowl is the great cultural measuring stick.
The people in charge know they have the attention of most Americans, so
they hit people right between the eyes with their best propaganda.
President Trump, for example, ran ads promoting his efforts to throw
open the prison doors so black criminals could be allowed to roam free.
Presumably, he thinks he needs to sure up his support among the career
criminal class in America’s urban areas.

The ads people like are the ones for product. Every year there are a
flood of news stories about which ads were best and which ones missed
the mark. The Super Bowl is something like an annual fashion show for ad
makers. They work hard to put on a great ad, which presumably will help
them get business the rest of the year. The cost of a single ad is over
five million dollars, so it is big business. A particularly bad ad could
cause real harm to the ad maker and his client.

Of course, the ads tell us something about what the Cloud People think
about the Dirt People watching the show. This year the ads were full of
non-whites, with some sexual deviants tossed in for variety. The one
normal white person was aging comic Bill Murray, who reprised his role
from the movie Groundhog Day for a Jeep ad. Otherwise, the ads looked
like the America the elites dream of inflicting on us rather than the
actual audience watching the extravaganza.

Then there was the halftime show, which is another big draw for the
non-sports fans, mostly women, of course. This year is was a local
stripper and her friends, pole dancing in the middle of the field. They
performed to what sounded like every Santana song ever made, so
presumably they were Latinos. One of the grounds crew put on a silver
cape and top hat, then wandered around among the strippers for some
reason, while mumbling something in Spanish.

The interesting thing, disappointing to our people, is the audience that
makes this extravaganza possible is white, while the ads, halftime show
and game are all in celebration of non-whites. Taken as a whole, the
target demographic of the event was closer to Brazil than North America.
It’s not just the complexion of the people, but the culture they
celebrate. For racially aware white people, the whole thing is an alien
production clearly aimed at an alien people.

It is tempting to get angry about it. There are plenty of people
on-line, who will scold you for having watched any of it. Others will
wag their finger about how most whites are so degraded they don’t see
what is happening on their TV screens. The truth is most white people
see it too. They are conditioned to filter it out and pluck out the bits
of joy they can, while ignoring the propaganda. They are not mindless
automatons programmed to consume the product without noticing it.

Propaganda works best when it offers the simplest explanation for a set
of observable facts or events. It is a narrative that can be easily
swapped into the target’s brain in place of his other explanations. What
you saw on the Super Bowl show was a lecture by humorless people, aimed
at people they hate. People were willing to sit through it in order to
enjoy their parties and so forth, but they got the message. Some more
than others, for sure, but people are not blind to this stuff.

That is the thing to keep in mind. People have been conditioned to keep
these observations private. They have not been brainwashed. Finding a
way to notice along with them is how people slowly realize they are not
alone. That is the first step in breaking the conditioning. The
bombarding of people with the anti-white presentations are a benefit to
the effort. Only a lunatic could deny what they saw on the big Super
Bowl show. The bad guys are making it easy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
