---
title: "The Crisis Of Constituencies"
date: "2020-09-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21280"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21280"
---

One of the defining features of post-Cold War America is that public
policy no longer reflects public sentiment. Washington passes plenty of
laws every year and spends plenty of money on various programs. State
governments have also grown like a weed in their size and scope. Plenty
is done in the name of the people, but precious little is favored by the
majority of the people. Instead, public policy debates are about
breaking down majority opposition in service to minority interests.

In theory, democracies should operate on the principle of majority rule.
Fifty percent plus one carries the day on every issue. This is certainly
true in the small scale, where a simple show of hands is enough to
decide an issue. That does not scale up very well, so countries have
representative bodies like parliaments and legislatures. Still, in a
representative democracy, with some exceptions, the majority will should
be reflected in public policy debates in the parliament or legislature.

Much of what vexes the current age is the sense by all factions that
their interests are no longer represented. The Left is convinced that
nefarious forces are preventing the majority from putting the Left into
power. That may be delusional, but they believe it to be true, which is
what matters. The Right, broadly defined to mean everyone not on the
Left, believes their majority interests are ignored. There is no issue
around which you can find a majority that thinks their interests are
being served.

This paradox of democracy, where the majority is captured by shifting
minorities, is not simply the product of hierarchy. The rich certainly
wield power disproportionate to their numbers, but even the rich find
their interests thwarted. For example, global business would love to
have unlimited foreign workers, but they can’t seem to buy enough
influence in Washington to get it. The same can be said for things like
trade policy, regulatory policy and tax policy.

The truth is, much of what the majority would like on domestic policy is
of little or no interest to the ruling oligarchs. For example, the roads
in America look like what you see in the third world. Big transportation
items like bridges, highways and tunnels have not been updated in half a
century. The Silicon Valley oligarchs are not going to be harmed by
better infrastructure. Wall Street would profit from new road building,
but there is never a majority in Washington for it.

On the other hand, projects with no natural majority somehow get pushed
through and linger on despite popular discontent. The big health care
push in the Obama years had no popular support as passed. It became
increasingly unpopular as the reality of it became a real thing for
Americans. The Republican party promised to repeal or fix it for close
to a decade, but nothing happened. There was always a majority in
Congress opposed to whatever changes were proposed.

Health care is a great example of how minorities rule majorities. Every
comma in the regulatory code has a dedicated constituency behind it.
Their existence depends on the part of the code that created them, so
they ferociously defend it. The millions of lines of regulatory code
have thousands, maybe tens of thousands, of little bands guarding their
bit of code from anything resembling reform. The only thing these tribes
are sure to agree upon is that change is never good.

This is why both parties intuitively opposed Trump’s wall project. On
the one hand, lots of those little constituencies feared it threatened
their turf. If we had a really good barrier system like Israel, maybe we
don’t need as many border agents. Maybe we don’t need as many
bureaucrats in the illegal alien processing system. It may sound
far-fetched, but every state has prison guard unions that lobby their
state to pass laws, because more laws means more criminals, which means
more prisons.

Then there is the fact that the wall would have created an army of new
constituencies invested in the barrier system. All of those people would
have become covetous of their new host and prepared to fight for their
interests. Government is not a zero-sum game, but it is treated as such
by the vested interests. A barrier system would mean new constituencies
and that would mean every slice of pie got thinner. It’s why the only
thing that gets done is that which serves existing constituencies.

It is why the Covid stuff could be permanent. In just six months new
industries have sprung to life serving the demands of Covid regulations.
Businesses have had to reorganize in order to operate under these
regulations. They have already absorbed the costs of compliance. They
have no incentive to go back to the old way. Of course, an army of
“health and safety professionals” are rising up like a zombie army. They
will fight tooth and claw to maintain this new environment.

There are many [paradoxes to
democracy](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20591), but one glaring one
is that instead of breaking down into mob rule, it becomes minority
rule. It is a form of the Pareto principle, where a small percentage
account for a large percentage of politics, but the small percentage is
always shifting and variable. Every issue has its own minority interest
driving the bulk of the politics related to that issue. There never
seems to be a majority in favor of ending that minority interest.

The sclerosis that we see in modern America seems to be immune from any
effort to force through change. Look at the struggles Trump has had in
removing troops from Afghanistan and Syria. The military industrial
complex is a honeycomb of small interests accounting for the bulk of
politics within that system. Whatever Trump does to try and get out of
these quagmires, those interest unite into temporary coalitions to
undermine the effort in order to protect their fiefdom.

Interestingly, this inability to reform due to a legion of petty
interests blocking reform is similar to the situation in
pre-revolutionary France. Collectively, the king and aristocracy had
good reason to reform the nation’s finances and reform certain aspects
of the French economy and society. Yet, there were always petty reasons
to block necessary reform, so they kept drifting toward crisis.
Eventually, of course, this inability to act in the interest of the
majority sapped their legitimacy.

That may be the process America is in now. The Left, always looking to
subvert order and continuity, is spoiled for choice when looking for
dissatisfied factions. In a world where the only majority is one that
sees its interest being ignored, the Left can always put together an
angry mob to disrupt order. This ease with which they sow discord in
society leads the rest of society to question the legitimacy of their
government, which seems powerless against these disruptions.

Adding to that is the fact that the majority cannot put their finger on
a single thing their government does for them, but is spoiled for choice
when looking for things the government does in spite of them. To the
natural majority, it seems as if the ruling class is deliberately
avoiding that which should be easy. Their incompetence and sclerosis are
increasingly seen as deliberate. Like France, we are drifting from
general unhappiness to a crisis of legitimacy that is increasingly
personalized.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
