---
title: "Irreconcilable Differences"
date: "2020-08-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21159"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21159"
---

The great concern of the American Founders was that factionalism would
result in irreconcilable differences. In Federalist 10, Madison argued
against direct democracy, because it inevitably leads to factionalism.
People have different interests due to differences in opinion, wealth
and status. Naturally, the like-minded join together in factions to
advance their interests, even at the expense of the community. The
remedy was the representative structure in the proposed constitution.

In a big diverse country like America, there are very few things a large
majority of the people will agree upon. There are the big things like
individual rights and equality before the law, but most issues will only
be supported by a plurality. If most people don’t care, then the
plurality gets their way. If not, then the plurality is out of luck. The
important thing is that there is general agreement on the big stuff and
a willingness to ignore the small items or leave people to sort them on
their own.

That was the point of the representative structure they devised. On the
one hand, it prevented the fifty percent plus one from imposing its will
on the rest. Tyranny of the majority is still tyranny. The system was
designed to compel compromise among the factions that would inevitably
form up. On the other hand, it delegated much of what mattered to people
in their politics down to the states. This was to prevent one region
from imposing its will on the rest.

The system did not last very long. Lincoln obliterated that old
structure and created a new country dominated by the North, which
explicitly wished to impose its morality on the rest of the country.
Starting in the early 20th century, the ruling faction has been growing
the power of the national government, at the expense of state
government, in order to impose its will on the rest of the country. The
full flowering of liberal democracy is minority rule, where a tiny group
control everything.

This is exactly the sort of problem the Founders wished to avoid. By
sharply limiting the power of the national government, it could never be
a weapon used by one faction against the rest of the country. It would
also prevent the formation of partisan schisms, where the two sides are
defined by their opposition to the other. The new system would make it
“more difficult for unworthy candidates to practice the vicious arts by
which elections are too often carried.”

By “vicious arts” Madison meant the playing of one faction against
another, in order to generate enthusiasm from one versus the other. The
Founders understood that democracy always led to tyranny or anarchy. The
antidote was republicanism, where individual or group interests were
sublimated to the good of the whole, even when the individuals involved
lacked the natural republican virtue. If Madison were alive today, he
would recognize the pit into which we have fallen.

There are libraries full of books on how and why we quickly abandoned
the system the Founders created. First it was the Civil War when the
North conquered the rest of the country by force of arms. Then it was
the slow dismantling of the federal system to create the system we today
call liberal democracy. There will be libraries of books written on
whatever comes next, assuming that what comes next is not a dark age. We
are a long way from the original vision and we shall never return.

What is not discussed very often is how this evolution has arrived at a
point where a significant portion of the people no longer accept
reality. The partisanship and factionalism have reached a point where
one faction is no longer able to agree with the other on basic points of
reality. You see this in [this post](https://archive.is/x11H6) by a
far-left activist working for the New York Times. The point of the post
is to demonstrate that he will reject anything his enemy says, even when
it is obvious fact.

Here we have the CDC posting updated information on the coronavirus that
people with knowledge of how these things work suspected all along. The
death counts were overblown, because the system was designed to do it.
At some point the numbers get adjusted back to something closer to
reality. In this case, the adjustment is newsworthy because it is so
extreme. Still, it is a real thing, but the partisans cannot accept it,
because they think it is supporting their enemies.

The same is true about the rioting this summer. You can go on-line and
see people looting, fighting, burning and destroying things. Despite the
thousands of hours of video on-line, the partisans demand we pretend
they are peaceful outbursts over something they insist is true, despite
the lack of evidence. When people they assume support Trump, their most
supreme enemy, point out that these rioters are being underwritten and
supported, they call it a conspiracy theory.

What makes this even more insane is the person who wrote that post, like
the others in his ideological faction, spent years telling us invisible
men with Slavic accents used mind control to alter the last election.
They insisted that while the Biden family regularly takes bribes from
foreign governments, noticing this is part of a conspiracy to undermine
the democracy. These people not only oppose everything their enemies
say, they create wild fantasies to justify their opposition.

Even though they did not use the word partisan in the modern sense, the
Founders understood that groups of like-minded people could disagree
with one another to the point where they could find no comprise. Their
system was designed to force compromise, by preventing any one group
from having complete power over the rest and thus imposing their will.
That is the whole point of federalism and the separation of powers in
the national government.

The Founders could not imagine partisanship in the modern Marxist sense,
where the factions are defined in opposition to one another. Peter
Baker, the writer of the New York Times post, is not able to think on
his own. His partisan fervor now leads him to take the opposite of
whatever he imagines his enemies are saying. If Trump says it is
raining, then Mr. Baker will claim that his enemies have created a
conspiracy theory where water falls from the sky.

If Mr. Baker were a lone lunatic, he could be dismissed, but he is
representative of the ruling class. He is one of their paid spokesmen.
How is it possible for normal people to reach a compromise with people
who are defined by their unwillingness to reach any compromise with us?
Who they are is defined by not agreeing with us on even the basic bits
of observable reality. When a reporter is stationed in front of burning
building and told to call it a peaceful protest, where’s the middle
ground there?

We have reached a point where the ruling class is at war with reality.
Part of that reality is they are a ruling class with certain duties and
responsibilities. They reject that solely on the grounds that the people
they rule over define a ruling class as having certain duties and
responsibilities. This is why they celebrate the anarchists burning
cities and murdering citizens. They oppose Trump, because he
rhetorically represents the rest of us and they are the forever enemy of
us.

There appears to be only two options at this stage. Either the ruling
class abandons its war on the rest of us or the rest of us accept that
we are at war. The former requires the ruling class to break free of the
partisan madness that now grips them. This is something without
precedent, but we live in an unprecedented time. The other option simply
reacquires time. At some point, necessity will require people to accept
reality and act accordingly. The rest is predictable.

Either way, we have reached a point that the Founders anticipated. They
could not imagine men in sundresses shrieking like lunatics about white
privilege, but they knew that unrestrained factionalism led to conflict.
They knew that irreconcilable differences could only lead to one thing.
That is where we find ourselves. Normal society is now at odds with the
people that rule over it. Either the people in charge come to their
senses or the people will have no choice but to remove them.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
