---
title: "Athens In Winter"
date: "2020-06-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20685"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20685"
---

It has been popular on the Right for a long time to compare modern
America to the Roman Empire. Often the point of the comparison is to
support the claim that America is an empire, rather than a republic.
Alternatively, the point is to warn of an imminent collapse, just like
what happened to Rome. The so-called conservatives, of course, reject
the idea, because the Left requires it, but most Americans still cling
to the idea that the country is some sort of democracy.

The comparison to Rome is a popular one because it is a well understood
story and it has a clear end. The Romans lost their republic and became
a dictatorship and then an Empire that dominated Europe. America, as the
story goes, has lost its republic and is now an empire that dominates
the world. The analogy is not intended to tell us anything about the
dynamic that has led America to this point. It is more of a self-serving
warning of an inevitable end dictated by history.

The thing is, Rome is not really a good analogy. The better comparison
is with ancient Athens, which went from a democratic city-state to a
democratic empire. Unlike Rome, Athens avoided the transition to
authoritarianism. It remained a democracy even as it came to dominate
the region and operate as an empire. Unlike Rome, it never accepted
itself as an empire. The spirit that animated the democracy as a
city-state remained as they came to dominate and control the other
city-states.

That is something we see with modern America. The typical American,
regardless of political cult, does not think of himself as a subject in
an empire. In fact, most stubbornly cling to the old democratic ideas.
Most white people, for example, think the constitution still plays a
role in the law. They think elections make a difference. Even non-whites
think elections matter, which is why they are organized. They want their
guys in office on the assumption that their guys will act on their
behalf.

Like Athens, America is an empire that does not know itself. Further, it
is an empire that is blind to its own authoritarianism. Many are
shocked, for example, at the widespread and coordinated response from
the corporate oligarchs to the riots. They are baffled as to how they
have these propaganda campaigns ready to go as soon as the riots were
started in Minneapolis. They struggle to process why people are forced
from their jobs for not cheering loud enough at the struggle sessions.

That really is the distinguishing feature of the modern American empire.
No one can accept that it is both an empire and authoritarian. This is a
society that bans books, throws men in jail for their politics and has
created a form of internal exile for those found to be guilty of
impiety. These were things that happened in Athens. Similarly, America
is a financial empire, more than a military one. Athens became an empire
when their currency became the default in the region.

Like Athens, the American Empire struggles to control itself. On the one
hand, the economic prosperity allows it to generate great wealth, while
on the other hand the internal incoherence leaves it staggering around
like a blind giant. Twenty years in Afghanistan, for example, is every
bit as insane as the Greeks invading Sicily in the Peloponnesian War.
Democracy demands a unifying purpose, so that becomes the point of the
democracy, finding some unifying cause.

The one difference, of course, is Athens was blessed with a neighbor
that could defeat it in war and strip it of its empire. America has no
enemy that can do that or even wants to do it. The Soviets were as close
as we came, but the analogy does not work because Americans and Russians
do not share the same heritage. The Spartans and Athenians were Greeks
and saw one another as Greeks. No such relation existed in the rivalry
between communism and liberal democracy.

The American empire lost its one rival in the 19th century. America
became an empire when the Yankee north conquered the Tidewater south in
the Civil War. At that point, the Athens of America became a continental
empire. After conquering its great spartan rival, it then moved west,
conquering the rest of the continent. In time, it expelled the European
powers from the hemisphere. Then in the 20th century, the American
empire conquered Europe and Asia.

Instead of reliving what happened to the Western Romans Empire, what we
are experiencing is what would have happened if the Athenians had
prevailed over the Spartans in the Peloponnesian War. Instead of the
Athenian democracy being contained, it would have spread like a virus
around the region. It is hard to know, but Hellenization would surely
have been more widespread and more democratic than what eventually
happened. The result would have been more familiar to us.

That means we can only speculate as to how the American Empire ends. It
may be that it does not end until some military power rises up to defeat
it. What was at the core of Athenian democracy is what is at the core of
liberal democracy. That is, an absolute certainty that this system is
the only one that can work. The intolerance of democracy is not rooted
in fear, but in an unbridled confidence. Only a defeat in war can
shatter that confidence in the democratic system.

Maybe the future is the present forever. On the one hand, the people at
the top make sure to keep the food and fun flowing to the people, even
turning protest into a form of spectator sport. On the other hand, it is
one spasm of virtue after another, finding new villains and new victims
of those villains. Maybe the only way a democratic empire can end is to
be defeated by an external force. Maybe the end of history is what we
are seeing today replayed over and over forever.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
