---
title: "Our Legacy Code"
date: "2020-02-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19934"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19934"
---

There is a bit of a paradox within all systems in that the point of the
system is to regulate human activity, as well as the activity initiated
by humans. At the same time, it is just at the point where they reach
that goal where they become obsolete. When the humans can no longer
change the system or work around it efficiently, the users of the system
start to question the system. The end point of all systems is the point
at which it reaches its logical conclusion.

The most obvious is business software systems. A company initially buys
a software system because it has logic that will implement the business
processes the company seeks to implement. Soon, they begin to tinker
with it in an effort to wring out more utility from the system. Maybe
that is small modifications to parts of the system logic or additional
data items to existing data sets. They keep doing this and over time the
system does just about everything the business needs.

At some point, they want to make an additional change, but see that the
cost of making this change to the nearly finalized software system is
higher than the benefit they will receive from the change. At first this
is proof that their long work on the system was a success, but in time
it is seen as a defect, a shortcoming. They begin to look for a new
system that will allow them to begin the process a new, so they can
modify it to slowly make it a perfect tool for the business.

This life-cycle of a software system is not unique to technology. It
happens in other systems as well. It is not unreasonable to think of
revolution as the replacement of a legacy system with a modern one.
Politics in this sense is the software of society, purchased by the
elite, implemented by the ruling class and administered by the
bureaucracy of the state. It is why libertarianism is impossible, by the
way. It requires a society to return to pencil and paper on purpose.

Sticking with the software analogy, another thing that is revealed by
revolutions and even the successful reform efforts is something you see
with software systems, which is the accumulation of
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cruft" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">cruft</a>. Much of the “improvement” gained by changing
systems comes from abandoning old logic and requirements that never made
any sense, but took too much time and money to remove. This often means
people whose jobs exist because of that cruft in the legacy system.

The same applies in social systems. A genuine reform effort in America,
for example, could simply start with firing everyone from the federal
system who has an odd number of letters in their last name. Sure, some
genuinely essential personnel would be lost, but the thousands of bits
of human cruft would make up the difference. Much of what plagues late
empire America is the generations of pointless and redundant code along
with the associated people that covers the system like plaque.

Revolutions are cast as revolts by commoners over practical issues. The
revolt gets out of hand either by circumstance or some failure by the
elites. The result is a toppling of the system. To go back to the
software analogy, the revolution is a revolt by users that cannot be
addressed by the guys in IT. The system cannot be changed to meet the
demands of the users, so the system is removed, the IT department is put
to the sword and a new software system is purchased and implemented.

That’s true in primitive societies. The Bolshevik revolution could not
have happened in an industrial society. Western Europe did not go from
feudalism to industrial communism, because it first entered into a
period of limited liberal democracy. The Russians were still operating a
social system built for the tenth century, but trying to adapt it to
technology and thinking from the 19th century. They went from pencil and
paper to <a
href="https://myth20c.wordpress.com/2020/02/19/cybernetics-across-the-grid/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">cybernetics</a> in one big
leap forward.

A better way to think of revolution, using the software analogy, is that
point in the life-cycle when the cost of change exceeds the perceived
benefit. The French Revolution is a good example of this. The
aristocracy could not justify to themselves the cost of changing the
system they inherited. The bourgeois revolutionary first started as a
reformer, like the quality team inside a company. It’s when necessary
change appeared to be impossible that they demanded the legacy system be
replaced.

We are seeing this with the political class. The first round of efforts
to modify the existing system started in 2016 with the election of
Trump. We’re seeing a second round now with the apparent nomination of
Bernie Sanders as his challenger. Trump was always a reformer who
believed in the fundamental integrity of the system. Sanders is a
revolutionary who promises to first remove the legacy system. His
platform is mostly about removing the old with promises of something
better.

In its response to these challenges, the so-called
<a href="https://slatestarcodex.com/2017/07/24/targeting-meritocracy/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">meritocracy</a> is proving the
point made by the reformers and the revolutionaries. They could, in
theory, easily adjust to co-opt the reformers and delegitimize the
revolutionaries. Yet in both cases they assumed the defensive crouch
rather than change their behavior. Like the IT guys maintaining the
legacy software system, they see change as a threat, so they make change
more expensive than the perceived benefits of those changes.

In 2016, the Republican Party could have easily stopped Trump by moving
toward him on immigration, trade and endless war. Instead, they advised
the other candidates to move the other way, thus paving Trump’s way to
the nomination. Something similar has happened with Sanders. Instead of
co-opting his bread and butter issues, the party told the candidates to
go extra heavy on wokeness, trannies and white privilege. This has made
Sanders the default for those who reject that stuff.

If the political class was a business, senior management would be
meeting about why the management and administrative layers have been
unable to deal with this problem, despite all of the warnings. It would
be time for a major shakeup. The trouble is, the so-called meritocracy
that controls politics is the senior management. Only a shareholder
revolt, to mix metaphors, is going to change things. Perhaps that is
what the 2020 election is shaping up to be, a shareholder revolt.

The trouble with these analogies is that when a company buys a new
software system or reorganizes its business processes, they don’t
execute the people defending the old way or even have them sent to
camps. Those people either embrace the new or quietly go away with their
severance. In politics, the old people never go away quietly and instead
fight to the last man to defend a legacy system that serves them. The
last three years of Trump make that abundantly clear.

For those puzzled by the appeal of Sanders, there’s your answer.
American politics is controlled by an elite that keeps one large swath
of voters in one party and another large swath in another party, then
makes them fight one another. In 2016, the voters in one camp revolted
against their camp guards. In 2020, the other camp is staging a revolt.
In both cases, it is a revolt against legacy code that appears to be
beyond reform. We are living in legacy code that must be replaced, if it
cannot be patched.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
