---
title: "The Absolution Ticket"
date: "2020-08-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21084"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21084"
---

Joe Biden announced has running mate section, which immediately set off
rounds of speculation as to why he picked Harris over the other options.
The most interesting thing about running mates is the reason the
candidate picked them. Otherwise, they tend to be forgotten. Look
through the <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hannibal_Hamlin"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">list of Vice Presidents</a>
and you see some familiar names, but you see guys like Elbridge Gerry
and Hannibal Hamlin. Both were prominent men of their age, but
meaningless today.

The curious thing about the Biden choice is it does not fit the popular
theories for running mate selection. The most popular reason for
selecting a running mate is they help in their home state. We know the
old Rust Belt states will be where the election is decided, so picking a
brown senator from California does not help there. Harris also has a
strong hate-whitey vibe to her, which tends not to go over well with the
white working-class types in these states.

Then there is the fact that Harris as the charm of a DMV clerk. In fact,
she reminds people of every trip to get their license renewed. She is
sour and unpleasant, even when she is professional and efficient. There
is a reason she could not draw flies during the primaries. She was so
obnoxious in the debates she was forced to drop out before the Iowa
caucus. If it were possible for people to cast negative votes, she would
have been the first to poll less than zero percent.

Usually when a candidate picks a former opponent, it is someone with an
actual constituency or maybe they complement the candidate. Al Gore was
a good partner for Clinton, because of his squeaky-clean image. George
Bush made sense for Reagan, as Bush represented the traitor wing of the
GOP. In this case, Harris has no constituency and she highlights the
many flaws of Joe Biden. The only people who liked her were the
executives at Google, who were already onboard.

That is the most popular theory at this stage. Biden is not all there,
so it is assumed the selection of Harris was as much of a surprise to
him as the rest of us. Instead the decision was made by his handlers and
it was decided he needed more support from the tech oligarchs. He had
the financial oligarchs and Israel was okay with him, so the final piece
of the puzzle was to get the blessing of Google. He now has the blessing
of all the power centers that run America.

There’s also the theory that Harris is fully compromised, so she will be
easy to manipulate by those dark forces everyone is sure exist. Her long
career under Willie Brown, literally and figuratively, means she has a
lot of skeletons. After the election, someone will put a pillow over
Biden’s face and Harris will be installed as Google’s handpicked
president. If Biden escapes the pillow, then she will be right there to
make sure he follows instructions from Silicon Valley.

It’s possible that the tech oligarchs put pressure on the campaign, but
those are the sorts of just-so narratives that appeal to the
conspiratorial minded. The truth is, Warren would have brought plenty of
tech money and support and she would have revved up the strong woman
vote. Warren raised more money for Biden than anyone thus far, so she
has strong support among the oligarchs. She’s also pretty good at
getting under the skin of Donald Trump, something Biden does not do
well.

The thing is, the process used to select running mates is well known.
The staff starts with a wide pool of interested candidates. They poll
all of them in various markets to gauge how they would do with voters.
Then they quietly look into their backgrounds for the usual problems.
Once they have the list down to a workable field, they get serious on
the background checks and poll testing. Powerful party people are
consulted on the options. Finally, the short-list interviews with the
candidate.

In other words, all of the options put before Biden had the blessing of
all the people that needed to bless the choice. The reason Harris was
the choice rather than the governess of Michigan or the syrup lady from
Georgia is Joe Biden liked Harris better than the other options. The
most likely reason for that is she called him a racist, but was still
willing to be his running mate. Biden picked the black looking woman who
was willing to give him absolution for his white privilege.

It sounds nutty, but we live in a deranged age. This summer, the Left
has been convulsing the country with demands that white people atone for
their privilege and racism, so what better way than a ticket that
reflects that sensibility? For people like Joe Biden, this is the
national unity ticket. He is the symbol of the white people being pushed
aside by the riot of non-whites. Harris is the symbol of the ascendant
class of non-whites, ready to take over and forgive the old whites.

To most people, this does not register, but inside politics and inside
the Progressive warrens, this is powerful magic. They really believe
this stuff. An article of faith on the Left is that the sin of racism
will only be cleansed from the nation when whites are no longer in
charge of the country. The statue toppling and erasing of names from the
history books are a symbolic spilling of blood to cleans our soul.
Rather than human sacrifices, we are <a
href="https://www.nasa.gov/feature/nasa-to-reexamine-nicknames-for-cosmic-objects"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">renaming celestial bodies</a>.

For white liberals of Biden’s generation, race is the only salient
issue. Most of these old Progressives came into politics because of the
race issue. Those who came in for other reasons were soon bathing in the
baptismal waters of race. They have spent their whole lives immersed in
racial politics. They really do think racial justice is the key to their
salvation. Biden was certainly hurt by Harris in the primary, so when
she was eager to join the ticket, he felt like a man getting absolution.

This most likely means the narrative of the Biden-Harris campaign will
be built around healing the nation’s soul. They will make the case that
a vote for them is a vote to end the racial unrest. The peaceful and
voluntary transfer of moral authority from the sinful whites of old
America to the noble non-whites of new America will bring all of us into
the valley of redemption. The salvation that was supposed to come with
the election of Obama will instead come with the last breath of his
running mate.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
