---
title: "The Spirit Of The Age"
date: "2020-04-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20300"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20300"
---

There are two general ways in which people follow the law. One group is
careful to stay within the letter of the law. If there is any question
about their compliance, they have well thought-out arguments about the
precise meaning of each word and phrase within the law in question. The
other group is concerned with the spirit of the law. They understand
that language is not always precise, so they think about what the
lawmakers intended when they crafted the specific law in question.

Both approaches, as is true of every human activity, are prone to
corruption. The letter-of-the-law side will play fast and loose with the
definition of words, often feigning ignorance about the meaning of
common words. The famous sociopaths Bill and Hillary Clinton have always
been fond of this. Bill famously challenged the meaning the word “is” in
one of his depositions. This is probably the most extreme example of <a
href="https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Tactical%20Nihilism"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">tactical nihilism</a> ever
committed. The Clintons were trail blazers.

Corrupting the spirit of the law is a tougher process. It requires the
corrupt to recast history in order to mischaracterize the intentions of
the lawmakers. The usual form this takes is another type of tactical
nihilism, in which the corrupt claim the people who wrote the law never
intended its current use. The gun grabbers like to play this trick when
talking about what the Framers meant when the put the right to bear arms
in the Bill of Rights. They simply lie about what can be easily
confirmed.

Because restating the past is difficult, the corrupt tend to congregate
in the letter-of-the-law end of the pool. We see that with the seditious
conspiracy to overturn the 2016 presidential election. The people
involved were wholly invested in finding loopholes and exceptions in the
letter of the law. During the virus panic, <a
href="https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2020/04/17/declassified-doj-letter-to-fisa-court-highlights-severe-institutional-corruption-doj-blames-fbi-for-spygate/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">some information</a> has been
declassified, showing how these guys parsed the law. Supposedly there is
an <a
href="https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2020/04/22/john-solomon-stands-by-his-claim-john-durham-indictments-coming-soon/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">investigation</a> into all of
this, but that is probably a myth.

The dynamic at work leading to this conspiracy was something like this.
Someone high up in the Obama administration decided to use the
surveillance agencies for domestic spying, which is in direct violation
of the law. There’s a mountain of testimony from lawmakers, who crafted
the laws creating these powers, that they were to never be used to spy
on Americans. Even today, grammar school children are told that only
despots spy on political opponents, so the intent of these laws is
clear.

That’s why the Department of Justice, the FBI and the CIA have ignored
the spirit of the laws and instead focus in the letter of the law. Like
Bill Clinton warming up for a deposition, they pored over every word of
the regulations in order to craft fraudulent warrants and court filings.
They did so in a way that could allow them to muddy the waters if they
got caught, by claiming simple errors of fact were just honest mistakes,
not an effort to mislead the court and get around the law.

This is the nature of the subversive. The reason he focuses on the
letter of the law is because he is at war with the spirit of the law.
His first step in killing the law and what it represents is to strangle
its spirit by denying it exists. First, he denies it in his mind then he
denies in his actions. You see that with the FBI agents involved in the
Spygate conspiracy. They hated that they could not spy on Americans, so
they first denied they should not be doing it then found a way to do it.

This is not a unique to the FBI. It is just one of the many corrupt
institutions in present day America. You see this hatred for the spirit
of the law in the <a
href="https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2020/04/21/enough-already-a-legally-conflicted-senate-intel-committee-presents-another-defense-of-intelligence-corruption/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Senate’s conduct</a> during
the FBI scandal. They surely know the laws in question were never
intended to be used as political weapons, but they don’t care about
intent. From their perspective, the law is for the commoners they try
hard to avoid. You’ll note that Richard Burr sits on that committee, the
guy fond of trading on his <a
href="https://www.politico.com/news/2020/04/15/thom-tillis-richard-burr-controversial-stock-trades-187730"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">insider information</a>.

In *The Spirit of the Law*, Montesquieu observed that every form of
government has a principle that motivates the citizenry. In despotic
societies, it is fear of the ruler that inspires the people. In
aristocratic societies it is the love of honor or the desire to attain
greater rank and privilege that inspires the people. In republican
societies, it is virtue that inspires the people. By virtue, he meant
the willingness to put the interests of the community ahead of private
interests. To sacrifice for the greater good.

Montesquieu can be forgiven for not anticipating the development of what
we now call liberal democracy. Even the most radical mind of his age
would have scoffed at the idea of giving women and criminals the
franchise. They would have doubled over in fits of hysterical laughter
at the assertion that all people are equal. They surely would have
assumed you were mad if you suggested there were more than two sexes.
Not so long ago, what we take for granted was beyond the realm of
imagination.

Still, it is worth considering what it is that motivates the citizen in
the liberal democracy, as it is certainly not virtue or honor. We see
that with our public officials. They may seek rank and privilege, but
only through the most craven and dishonorable means available to them.
They are happy to sacrifice your interests for their greater good. In
fact, the only time they work together is when it is time to siphon off
more of your greater good in order to top off their tanks of greater
good.

That leaves us with fear as the great motivator, but not fear of the
despot. Instead, it is a fear of the law itself. Every new law brings
new opportunities for the liberal democratic ruling elite to torment the
public. Since words have no meaning and the spirit of the law is
strangled in its crib, the law is whatever the ideological enforcers
happen to think it means in any given moment. The public is left to the
mercy of a ruling class filled with self-righteous anger at the people
over whom they rule.

This is the spirit of our age, the liberal democratic age. The great
fear of the law is actually a fear of order and stability. A hatred of
it, in fact. The liberal democratic regime needs to feed its sense of
necessity and it can only do so in a crisis, so it creates panics and
emergencies. What we are seeing in this virus panic is the full
flowering of liberal democracy. It is a world of the forever present,
because it is without law and a world without order. It is a world with
no tomorrow.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
