---
title: "The UFO Problem"
date: "2020-01-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19577"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19577"
---

Tucker Carlson has a UFO problem. Going back to the start of his Fox
show, he has done segments on various claims about space aliens visiting
earth. These are not claims by people, who swear they have been probed
by big gray men, but the claims of people who worked in government at
one time or another. He has even interviewed people, who worked on
government UFO programs. Recently he had former Pentagon people on to
talk about [this
story](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/secret-ufo-files-could-cause-exceptionally-grave-damage-to-us-national-security)
of a secret UFO file.

People like these sorts of stories, even if they don’t believe in little
green men secretly visiting our planet. It’s fun to think about what it
would be like if we did verify such visitations from another world.
Tucker is not a kook, so his interest in this topic should not be
dismissed out of hand. The American government has taken the issue
seriously, at least according to that recent story. So much so they have
had top men working on it for a very long time. They think it could be
true.

The crux of the matter is that pilots have, on multiple occasions,
recorded objects buzzing around in ways that cannot be explained. At
least they look like objects in the videos released to the public. In
[these
videos](https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/navy-confirms-videos-did-capture-ufo-sightings-it-calls-them-n1056201),
pilots and crew can be heard asking questions about what they are
seeing. No official explanation has been offered, so we are left to
assume they don’t know either. It seems that on many occasions, American
fighter pilots have spotted UFO’s.

Now, it has to be said that many of these could simply be clever pranks
by servicemen with too much free time. Every year someone gets busted
for making a contrail penis in the sky, so these guys like pranks.
Others could simply be anomalies that have a boring technical
explanation, so no one bothers with them. Maybe this is just another
part of how the government keeps people distracted. The secret UFO files
are just part of the ongoing psyops to distract the public from noticing
too much.

The trouble with the various ways of dismissing the UFO stuff is it
often sounds as conspiratorial as the theories explaining why these are
visiting aliens. Repeatedly, we see that the people running the American
government are too dumb to execute the basic functions of the state.
It’s unlikely they are working a complex, multi-generational deception
involving fake UFO video. The people who use text messages to plot
sedition are not going to be working such a complicated scheme.

What the facts tell us about this stuff is the American government has
recorded lots of these events and they remain unexplained. There is a
good chance other militarizes have had similar experiences. The Russians
and Chinese probably have divisions that collect up and examine
unexplained phenomenon. It’s not out of the question that there is some
contact between these government agencies, at least an acknowledgement
that they exist for the same reasons.

The two possible explanations for the evidence are that it is the result
of some completely unknown natural phenomenon or it is space aliens.
Both answers would mean large gaps in our understanding of the natural
world. Theoretical physicists have been at a dead end for a long time.
Space exploration has been stalled for generations. Our understanding of
our natural world is at its infancy. These phenomena could simply be
more proof that we don’t know a whole lot.

Of course, if these are space aliens, it means some species well beyond
our understanding has solved problems we cannot contemplate. For
example, our best science is not all that sure humans can live in space
long enough to travel beyond Mars and back, without dangerous physical
consequences. If we are being visited by aliens, it means they solved
the problem of carbon based life forms living in space for long periods
without being destroyed by
[radiation](https://www.nasa.gov/feature/space-radiation-is-risky-business-for-the-human-body).

It would also mean these aliens conquered the physical problem of
traveling between galaxies. That means they either live long enough to
go light years into space or they have invented propulsion devices that
allow for speeds beyond anything we think is possible with what we know
of physics. Alternatively, they have found a way to fold space in order
to move from one location to another. Instead of physically traveling
through space, they make space travel for them.

All of the possible explanations for how visitors from another world
raise the age-old science fiction movie paradox. How could a race so
advanced be so easily caught on our primitive video? If they have the
ability to bend space, they will have the ability to bend light or at
least have really good camouflage. They would see our primitive airships
long before we were able to see them. These videos contradict the one
possible answer for why they exist in the first place.

The answer to that could simply be that they are observing us and part
of it is to see how humans react to limited exposure to the possibility
of aliens. This could be nothing more than part of the simulation that
is our existence. You can come up with all sorts of entirely unprovable
explanations for why super intelligent space aliens are getting caught
on video. If you want to believe in UFO’s, there’s always a way to
maintain the belief in the face of this type of skepticism.

There is one other angle to the UFO stuff. It feeds the need to believe
that our governments have super-secret stuff hidden away in super-secret
government agencies run by X-Files types. For some reason, people need
to believe this. It’s probably because deep down, people won’t except
that their government is staffed by stupid people who got lucky. The
fate of the world depends on a series or average people guessing the
right way or making the right mistakes.

That could be the real psyop. The people in charge know that the rest of
us need to think they have things under control. The fake UFO footage is
intended to promote the idea that our government has these super-secret
programs. If people believe that, they will believe the government
screw-ups over foreign policy or economic affairs are really part of
some super-secret scheme involving deep state actors. The real psyop is
covering up the fact that we are ruled by lucky dimwits.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
