---
title: "The Deluge Of Opinion"
date: "2020-07-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20884"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20884"
---

Bertrand Russel said, “The trouble with the world is that the stupid are
cocksure and the intelligent are full of doubt.” It is a pithy aphorism
that has now been amplified by modernity into a description of liberal
democracy. In every Western country, the stupid drown out everyone else
in the court of public opinion, but do so with a breath-taking degree of
self-righteous sanctimony. The hallmark of the modern man is to have an
opinion on everything, almost all of them wrong.

It is not that the stupid have been made supreme, although it certainly
seems that way when you encounter public opinion. It’s that everything
has been politicized to the point where every issue, no matter how
small, becomes a moral signifier. Where you stand on the issue says
something about you and your position in society. If you don’t have an
opinion on an issue, it is assumed you are ignorant or possibly in
league with dark forces, those who hold the “horrifically” wrong
opinion.

For most of human history, few people had opinions on anything. After
all, most people had no say in most things, so why bother having an
opinion? The farmer working the land had a very limited range of things
in which his preferences mattered. The shop keeper in the village or
city operated under the rules established by whoever it was that ruled
the village or city. Since no one cared what he thought about those
rules, there was no need for him to have an opinion on those rules.

In private rule, whether it is a monarchy, dictatorship or oligarchy,
opinions on public affairs are limited, as very little is actually
public. The king decides and the people abide. Opinion only matters in
private affairs, where people have control over their lives. What really
matters to people is how comfortable and successful they fit into their
social role. Custom, tradition and habit are what matter most, as
complying with those is what brings personal and social happiness
through the reduction of conflict.

In public rule, like a democracy or even communism, the range of topics
up for debate expands well beyond the personal, but the moral
significance of them paradoxically becomes highly personal. The theory
in democracy is that the people come together, debate the topics at hand
and fifty percent plus one decides public policy. In most forms of
communism, the general will is expressed through the organs of the
party, which has a monopoly of power. Thus, policy is always in line
with the general will.

In reality, the public comes to embrace some new moral truth around the
issue at hand as almost all issues facing a society are mundane and
straightforward. The first truth of democracy is that most issues don’t
require debate. The issue is whether or not the people will voluntarily
go along with what must be done or they must be compelled. Democratic
debate quickly devolves into claims about morality. The new moral truth
is determined and everyone is then judged on where they stand regarding
this truth.

For example, for ten thousand years marriage was understood to be
primarily about creating new people. The male and female are joined and
the product of that union is their children. Then all of a sudden, for
no obvious reason, the great and good asked the public to redefine
marriage to mean two people sharing a bed and rent. They slowly whipped
people into believing one side was righteous, while the other was evil,
until they got a critical minority to accept the new morality.

In liberal democracy, this this new system for evolving moral truth is
extended by casting the new morality backward in time. It is not just a
new moral truth, but a newly discovered universal and timeless moral
truth. People are then judged by how far outside of this moral truth
they were before it was discovered. It is why anyone associated with
racism must be erased from the history books, as it suggests this new
moral truth about race was not always a moral truth.

The result of this is an expansion of public debate to all aspects of
life. No issue, no matter how trivial, is off limits. Even the most
private topics must be exposed to public debate, as to do so suggests
some things are outside morality. This was true in communist societies,
where even your thoughts were open to examination. We are seeing this
evolve in liberal democracy where modern day spectral evidence is used
to determine if you hold opinions outside the accepted morality.

People naturally respond to their environmental. To be caught outside
the newly discovered timeless morality is to live as a pariah.  A way to
avoid this is to loudly express the proper opinion about all subjects at
all times. Those seeking to live in the elevated areas of modern life,
the media, entertainment, government, corporations, must always be seen
as inside the moral domain. Social media has become the platform on
which they display their piety.

Of course, people look up for their social cues, so this endless
bellowing about the accepted morality has trickled down to every nook
and cranny of society. The suburban mom now feels compelled to ululate
about racism on here neighborhood Facebook page, even though her
neighborhood is totally white. Millions of YouTube actors repeat
familiar chants like “there is no biological basis for race” despite the
fact they have not the slightest idea what the phrase is supposed to
mean.

We are living in a deluge of opinion, almost all of which is uninformed.
Rather than living within a society structured by tradition, custom and
habit, people now live in a world structured by mass opinion, shaped by
a small group of gangsters at the top, who use the institutions of
society to shape opinion. Everywhere the intelligent turn, they are
confronted by the stupid and cocksure, screaming the latest opinions on
the timeless morality that was invented last week.

It is really quite remarkable how irrational liberal democracy has
become in just the last generation. The reason the world feels like it
is going mad is that the volume of the stupid and insane has been turned
to eleven. The reason for that is the inevitable logic of liberal
democracy. If fifty percent plus one determines the truth, whether it is
the price of fruit or the level of taxation, it stands to reason that
all truth must be exposed to the fifty percent plus one and judged
accordingly.

This means today’s truth can easily become tomorrow’s heresy. All it
takes in many cases is a few votes to change at the very top. In the
case of homosexual marriage, it took just one vote. All of a sudden, two
men playing house is a timeless conservative principle of the
constitution order. In such a fickle perfidious existence, the
self-righteous and stupid must be prepared to loudly proclaim their
fidelity to the new truth, as soon as the new truth is on the horizon.

The communist solved the problem of public government by deceitfully
privatizing it in the name of the people. The party became the arbiter
of truth and eventually settled into a fixed set of rules. While those
rules were often at odds with the reality of the human condition, they
at least had the benefit of being predictable. Liberal democracy does
not appear to have such a mechanism. It is a constant revolution against
established truth, so any effort to stabilize it is viewed as a threat.

There seems to be two paths forward for the current liberal democratic
order. One path forward is it shakes itself into exhaustion, like a
mental patient having a violent break from reality. The necessary
mechanisms for a functioning society begin to break down under the
assault of the stupid and self-righteous. The collapse of urban police
departments is an ominous sign that this is the path we are one now.
Imposition of order is being anathematized as irredeemably immoral.

The other path is something like a slow decent into madness. These
spasms of lunacy will be followed by periods of relative calm. Just as
the sober minded are putting things back in order, another spasm strikes
to knock down that which has been repaired and knock down some new
items. The result is spasmodic periods of decline until the sober minded
are no longer willing or able to serve their role. At this point society
tips into an accelerated decline and eventually collapse.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
