---
title: "Custodialism"
date: "2020-04-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=14796"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14796"
---

Every political philosophy starts with a set of beliefs about the human
condition that are claimed to be universal and timeless. Based on these
assumptions, there is a critique of the present state of affairs and the
political organization responsible for it. What comes after that is an
alternative. The claim is that the alternative will more closely
correspond to man’s natural condition. Usually, there is a list of
principles put forward that are intended to increase the good and
diminish the bad.

Communists, for example, assumed that human beings are naturally
cooperative, but that private property creates conflict. The greed of a
few, exploiting the many, results in conflict between the classes.
Eliminate private property and you eliminate that social conflict. They
argued that the move to industrial societies meant scarcity could be
eliminated through collective ownership of capital. The elimination of
private property would lead to the equitable distribution of production.

Libertarians see cooperation as the result of the diversity of talents
among humans and their rational self-interest. Once two people figured
out that they could increase their output by combining their efforts,
the foundation of society was set. People soon figured out that
combining diverse talents increases collective productivity and material
prosperity. Because humans are motivated by self-interest, they
naturally cooperate with one another to increase their material
prosperity.

The people who currently rule over us, start from the assumption that
all humans possess the same natural raw material. The differences we see
in people are the result of racism, poverty, inequality and the legacy
of white supremacy. Otherwise, people come into the world as amorphous
blobs that can be shaped into whatever society makes of them. Whether
the rulers truly believe this is not important. Public policy is based
on the blank slate and extreme egalitarianism.

If the starting point for a political philosophy is a set of universal
truths about the human condition, then it is necessary that those truths
be based in reality. Marxism has been a bloody disaster, because it
assumes things about man that are contrary to the reality of the human
condition. Marxists tried to remedy this by killing off the
inconvenient, but it turned out that you just can’t kill enough people
to make it work. Transforming society into an abattoir lowers
productivity, rather than producing plenty.

Similarly, but without the bloodshed, libertarianism has been a complete
failure as a political movement, because *homo economicus* is not real.
Material self-interest is certainly part of the puzzle, but humans are
motivated by all sorts of things. More important, the assumption that
people will deal with one another in good faith, once the monopoly of
the state is removed, is false. Every society has some portion motivated
to rule over the rest. Someone will always be in charge.

Much of what vexes the modern West is that the people in charge have
embraced a political philosophy based on invalid assumptions about human
nature. People are not born as amorphous blobs that can be molded into
model citizens. Instead, they are the genetic result of thousands of
mating decisions that came before them. Further, nature does not
distribute her gifts equally between individuals or groups. The
diversity of man extends to all aspects of the human animal, not just
the superficial traits.

The main reason the West is struggling to square what it believes about
humanity with what is happening in the world, is that the core
assumptions of the West were formed in the Enlightenment. The great
debates about the nature of man were between Europeans, who were
primarily concerned with how Europeans would organize themselves, manage
relations between groups of Europeans and conduct commerce between and
within groups of Europeans.

Another issue is that Western style liberal democracy is a creation of
an age when smart people knew very little about the human sciences.
Their speculation about the evolution of settled society was a work of
imagination. They may have had some sense that humanity progressed from
savagery to civilization, but they had no understanding of genetics,
evolution or the interplay between culture and biology. They had no
knowledge about what we inherited from our simian ancestors.

The big flaw is the assumption that there is some reason, beyond the
material, for why humans are the only intelligent species on the planet.
We’re special. As such, there must be some reason for it. The very
notion of human progress assumes there must be a reason for our
existence. After all, to what are we progressing if there is no purpose
to our existence? What is the point of the arc of history if it does not
have a beginning, middle and end? There must be some reason for it.

Current events are a good lesson in the reality of the human condition.
Humans are not relentlessly pursuing their self-interest or naturally
cooperative. The engine that drives humanity is the need for safety. We
see that all around us as people meekly hide in their closets because
they are told the bogeyman is outside. The great panic would not be
possible if people were driven by self-interest. Why would the
overwhelming majority sacrifice for the one or two percent vulnerable to
the virus?

The fact is, people have gone along with this because down deep, in the
store of man’s oldest desires, is the urge to huddle in the cave with
the rest of the tribe, as the storm rages outside. That is man’s oldest
desire as a social animal. To bind together in a shared fear of the
natural world is what makes us human. The great motivator of mankind is
the desire for safety. If there is a point to our existence, it is to
shelter with our cave mates trembling in fear at the great danger
outside.

For sure, people do more than just shelter from the danger, but it is
the desire for safety that drives our actions. We will cooperate with
one another to defeat some threat and will profit greatly from saving
people from a threat. Safety and its traveling companion comfort are the
great drivers of human progress. A great way to get rich is to eliminate
a danger from life. The most popular way, however, is to make the
sheltering from the dangers of life as comfortable as possible.

If there is to be a new moral philosophy for the post-Enlightenment age,
it will have to be based, at least in part, on man’s nature desire for
safety. In fact, the neo-liberal order may very well be the moral
philosophy to first root itself in safety. The legion of schoolmarms and
harpies monitoring our speech and making sure we have no unclean
thoughts are all here for our collective good. They even say their role
is to create safe spaces for every conceivable type of person.

The Enlightenment was as much about observing what was happening on its
own as crafting blueprints for future societies. Marx, for example, had
plenty of examples to draw from to form his ideas. Maybe that is what we
are seeing today. As the custodial state forms up, what we call the
neo-liberal order will become more formal and get a new name that
captures its essence. Perhaps we are living at the dawn of Custodialism,
the politics of keeping everyone safe from any possible danger.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
