---
title: "Simulacra and Simulation"
date: "2020-07-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20929"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20929"
---

Logic dictates that it is impossible for someone to lie to themselves. A
lie is the deliberate, and therefore conscious, telling of a falsehood.
The person lying is deliberately trying to deceive someone. The only way
lying can be successful is if the person hearing the lie believes it.
Lying to yourself is an obvious paradox. This is true of self-delusion
or self-deception. The real paradox here is that we have these
expressions because the phenomenon seems to exist.

For example, the odds of knowing someone who has died from the corona
virus is very low, unless you work in a nursing home. For the typical
person, you are more likely to know someone who was murdered. In fact,
in most of the country, you are four times more likely to know a murder
victim than a corona victim. Yet, many people on the Left will tell you
they know many people who have died from corona. They really believe
this is true and display the appropriate emotions to prove it.

Adding to the intrigue is the fact that these people have had the math
explained to them many times by the more skeptical. The same is true
about the stories of overwhelmed hospitals everyone hears about, but no
one has seen. The nurses and doctors posting TikTok videos of themselves
dancing in empty hospitals had no effect on the believers in these
claims. Even now, they are sure the “first responders” are nearing
exhaustion as they heroically fight the virus.

It is not a coincidence that these people are sure Donald Trump is
Adolph Hitler slowly imposing the Third Reich. People who otherwise seem
calm and rational, despite their politics, become hysterical when
talking about Trump. “He’s a dangerous dictator who is destroying the
country” they bellow. It’s not just hyperbole. They really seem to
believe that Trump is not only a man who wants to be a dictator, but
that he is actually assuming dictatorial power. The lie is very real to
them.

It’s not so much that they believe complete nonsense regarding Trump.
It’s that their own reaction to the nonsense underscores the
irrationality of it. After all, if Trump is anything like they believe,
voting him out of office is unlikely. After all, he would use his magic
dictator power to rig the vote or just ignore the result. Rather than
reevaluate their beliefs, they are now creating another fantasy around
with Trump [secretly
plotting](https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/06/when-does-trump-leave-white-house/613060/)
to ignore the results of the election.

For these people, perception is reality to the point where reality is
warped in order to make it comply with their pseudo-reality. Like
fanaticism, partisanship untethers the mind from objective reality.
Unlike fanaticism, which is temporary and disconnected from rational
thinking, partisanship enslaves the rational mind, forcing it to create
an alternative reality. This partisan reality is so powerful it blocks
out anything that contradicts or disconfirms the alternative reality.

The most extreme version of this are the radicals that go on a murderous
rampage in the belief they are defending their cause against dangerous
enemies. They quickly move from disagreement to murder, because they
quickly create a reality in which anyone showing the least bit of doubt
is secretly plotting to kill them. Those who commit political murder do
so in the firm conviction they are acting in self-defense. In fact, they
have to kill their opponents for the good of society.

The thing about political murder is it is not irrational. If you truly
think the only way your people can survive is to abide by a certain set
of rules, then anyone trying to undermine those rules is a direct threat
to your survival. Bargaining with such a person or offering them
leniency would be no different than bargaining with a killer. The fact
that political opposition is not the same as violent assault is the
deception. The partisan has become convinced of something that is at
odds with reality.

Compounding this strange conflict of realities is the fact the people in
each are highly similar to one another, but seemingly incapable of
seeing the reality of the other as the other perceives it. The people
sure the hospitals are war zones, for example, look at images of empty
hospitals or the statistics on hospital layoffs and it has no impact on
their mental processes. It’s as if that information is invisible to
them. In fact, it just confirms to them that the other people are
dangerously insane.

In fairness, something similar happens when dealing with the MAGA
people. Their blind loyalty to Trump and the old America is more
endearing, but just as disconnected from reality as the “Trump is
Hitler” stuff. In this regard, those looking hard at the world find
themselves surround by people from at least two simulations that are
derivative of reality, but at odds with it in fundamental ways. It’s as
if there is a leak in these simulations and their simulacrum are leaking
into the real world.

The question we face in this age is whether it is possible to maintain a
civil society with an abundance of people embracing an alternative
reality. Fanatics, eccentrics, lunatics and so on have been a part of
human society since the beginning. The issue today is one of scale.
Those leaky simulations have burst open and our reality is now flooded
with berserk imitations of normal people, acting on a sense of reality
that is at odds with objective reality. We’re being overrun by
simulacrum.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
