---
title: "The Polling Problem"
date: "2020-10-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21599"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21599"
---

**Notice**: I have <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/207294"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a new item</a> up behind the
green door. This is a post about the movie Avatar and how it relates to
the increasingly fantastical world of the Left.

It is becoming popular on the Right to dismiss polling as nothing more
than another part of the endless gaslighting from our rulers. Like the
news, it is assumed that the polls are fake, at least regarding Donald
Trump. For sure, there are a lot of bogus polls and even more bogus poll
stories. Like everything else in this age, the quality of polling has
steadily declined. That said, there may be some other issues beyond
deceit that are undermining the utility of political polling.

One obvious problem is the demand side. The media has always liked
polling because it is cheap content. It allows them to discuss the
results of an event, like a presidential election, for months before it
actually happens. Polling stories are just a way to pretend the election
already happened. Then as the polls change, and they always do, the
media can talk about those changes. That also opens the door for
so-called experts, who can provide “expert” commentary on the polls.

Of course, supply naturally follows demand, so Gallup was followed by
other polling outfits supplying opinion surveys to the media. The
explosion of media over the last thirty years has caused an explosion in
demand for polling. One reason we have so much bad polling now is the
same reason we have fake news. There is only so much good quality
material, so the void is filled with low-quality material. Fake news has
replaced real news and fake polling is crowding out good polling.

Polling is a business. These companies don’t just do presidential polls
every four years. They make the bulk of their money doing work for the
political establishment and corporate clients. If you want to know if
your new slogan resonates with the public, hire a polling firm to test
it out in key markets. If you want to know if the deceptive name for
your amnesty bill will fool the public, have a polling company do a
survey of your voters to find out if they fall for it.

This is where polling may be running into trouble without really knowing
it. They no longer have many different clients with different
requirements. In reality, the big polling outfits have one client,
Politics Inc. One of the ironic aspects of the liberal democratic age is
politics is now big business. Billions are spent on elections, which
means there is a political industrial complex serving that industry.
Consultants, policy experts, money-men, organizers and so on live off
politics.

When the Democrat party went all in on the Russian conspiracy hoax,
major news outlets created divisions just to perpetuate it. The New York
Times reorganized their “news room” just to promote the hoax. All those
“reporters” sitting in cubicles grinding out content needed material, so
the vast political-industrial complex was happy to provide quotes,
rumors and anecdotes to make it happen. The Russia hoax quickly moved
from conspiracy theory to being a jobs program.

This dynamic in which politics is a vast economy of its own may be
breaking the old political polling model. Instead having lots of clients
that change every election cycle, the polling industry has one big
client – the political industrial complex. The candidates and issues may
change from election to election, but the people hiring the vendors is
always the same. It is the same consultant class, the same media class
and the same organization men. There is one client now, Washington.

An interesting example of this is the Trafalgar Group. This is the
polling outfit that predicted a Trump victory in 2016. They have been
getting a lot of attention this year, because they are once again
predicting a Trump win. All the other polling outfits are predicting a
Biden landslide. Naturally, Trump friendly media is now all over these
guys as they are saying what they like to hear. To a lesser degree,
Rasmussen remains a fan favorite, as they report positive polling about
Trump as well.

According to the Trafalgar Group, 2016 was the first time they did
presidential polling, as polling was a small part of their business.
After 2016, political polling became the biggest part of their business.
If they turn out to be right in 2020, it is safe to assume that polling
will be their only business. That means their only client will be the
political industrial complex. Business is business and in business, the
customer is always right, so it is not hard to see where this will lead.

Something similar happened to the credit agencies. For the longest time
they made their money supplying a wide range of clients with objective
credit analysis. Banks would rely on them to provide credit reports on
borrowers. Investors would rely on them to rate corporate and government
bonds. Government and corporations would use them as part of their
evaluation of employees in sensitive positions. A spy agency, for
example, does not want a man with money problems.

Then a funny thing happened in the 1990’s. The Wall Street investments
firms started to become the dominant customer. The proliferation of
investment vehicles meant a spike in demand for credit analysis. Soon,
Wall Street was crowding out all the other business, as they cooked up
more and more exotic instruments. It also meant a much closer working
relationship between the two sides. The customer is always right and
everyone does a solid for a friend in need.

By the time the mortgage bubble was ready to burst, the credit agencies
were just slapping AAA on everything that crossed their desk. The
clients were happy and no one was complaining about the fees, so why
not? The same thing may be happening with the polling outfits. They
supply polling results that make the client happy and they get paid well
for it. Note that none of the polling outfits that got 2016 completely
wrong suffered as a result of their errors.

The goofy TV pollster Frank Luntz made a startling admission the other
day on Fox News when he said the polling industry is dead if they are
wrong this time. In other words, if Trump wins in two weeks, polling
becomes fake news. In a sane world he would probably be right, but as
long as the political industrial complex is in business, they will be
gaslighting the public on behalf of their client. That means they will
want polling, even if it is based on wishful thinking.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="SU1vRsLF573aMVvtQoU64Q==cb7aSOOhvatnJoQ+q1PQIuEKIdr8Um0bMvFUXtOd4EDQiRWhBY6+BgPqt6CDTARer2l"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="DhAaxPo8fKep2jx9J8MZSQ==cb72NF0+z/I71+RzPxMYO5HkQuv/VGAjvwodI+DD42w7FIL2gqoLl072hKDaWdNuAyo"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
