---
title: "The Great Stagger"
date: "2020-09-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21345"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21345"
---

One of the curious things about the Roman Empire is how it managed to
stagger on for so long after the second century. The third century is
actually called The Crisis of the Third Century, because the empire was
in chaos. Yet, the empire managed to get through that period and carry
on for roughly two more centuries. In time, Historians will probably
puzzle over the same question regarding America. How is that it staggers
on despite the obvious problems?

A popular theme in science fiction is one where the human explorers
stumble upon alien technology and they are baffled as to what it does.
It’s not that they know the purpose but cannot figure out how to make it
work. It’s that they don’t understand the purpose of the technology. The
implication is that the aliens were so advanced that they were creating
tools to solve problems humans have yet to contemplate. The gap between
the aliens and humans is so great that it cannot be bridged.

It is a useful thing to keep in mind when thinking about the modern
world. The evidence is pretty good that Western man is dumber than his
ancestors. We have more overall knowledge than our ancestors, but our
ability to add to it is in sharp decline along with our ability to use
it. The people in charge now struggle to do the basics of government,
like maintain order and the infrastructure. In America, streets are
crumbling and there are regular power failures in parts of the country.

A good small-scale example is the city of Baltimore. All of the
machinery that was put in place back when it was an important city is
still in place. The people running that machinery today are not doing so
well. They clearly lack the intellectual firepower to operate that
machinery. Baltimore is one of the most dangerous cities in the world
and it is suffering from a steady population decline. The political
class is so incompetent they can’t even run the graft system properly.

This was all true before the Covid panic. One thing that kept Baltimore
afloat was the tourist and sports industry. In the summer, tourists
would come to the well-guarded inner harbor. People from the surrounding
areas would come in for sports games and the surrounding restaurants.
All of that was shuttered by the panic, which means the tens of millions
in tax dollars never arrived. Then there is the cost of the Covid panic
itself, which has further crippled the city administration.

When you look at many American cities like Baltimore, St. Louis,
Detroit, Newark and so on, the question is not “How did they get to this
point?” The question is, “How have they not collapsed by now?” Part of
it, of course, is the surrounding infrastructure that keeps them propped
up. In the case of Baltimore, the rest of the state is taxed to keep
Baltimore City government going. Federal dollars pour in to keep the
cops on the streets and the schools open for business.

That’s fine for cities, but that cannot work for the country as a whole.
Like those cities, the national government is increasing incompetent.
Both official political parties are in such steep decline that the next
election will offer a choice between a carny barker and a dementia
patient. The sober minded will always feels as if the current age sits
on the shoulder’s of giants, but the gap between the best we have today
and just a few generations ago is breathtaking.

The only thing the political elite is good at doing is keeping the
public at one another’s throat over trivia. This is why Trump in
President. His main skill as a politician is to stir the pot and cause
outrage. He’s a terribly inflamed hemorrhoid on the political ass of the
establishment. The upcoming circus over the Supreme Court nominee
promises six weeks of television mayhem. The shouting and shrieking, of
course, will be from the political class itself, not an outraged public.

One can dismiss that as “bread and circuses” but that does not explain
how the country staggers on despite it all. For six months the
government at all levels has been sabotaging the economy and civic life
with the Covid panic. Tens of millions have been thrown out of work. No
one knows how many businesses have closed for good due to the Covid lock
downs. Food lines are popping up in the suburbs. How is it that none of
this has resulted in civil unrest or at least a few protests?

Of course, no one can really know what is happening. The media told us
over 50 million people were thrown out of work due to the panic. The
empty streets seem to confirm it, but they also tell us unemployment is
below 10%. The stock market has returned to the levels it was at before
the panic. The media also tells us that the riots we saw over the summer
were a figment of our imagination. How can anything work when no one can
be sure of anything being told to them by the rulers?

Like Rome for close to three centuries, America staggers on, despite the
problems and the decline of the ruling class. In the case of Rome, there
was no organized force capable of toppling her. In the case of America,
the global order assumes America will be the pivot point, the fulcrum on
which order balances. As long as people are being fed and have shelter,
they will not rise up to challenge the rulers. Like Rome, the great
stagger will continue until the corpse of the empire collapses.

The thing to keep in mind, though, is that when Rome was finally sacked
by the Visogoths, the rest of the known world was stunned. St. Jerome
wrote in grief, “If Rome can perish, what can be safe?” In other words,
for a very long time people knew the empire was a shell of its former
glory and Rome itself was no longer what it was. People just got used to
the permanent state of decline. It was their normal. Most likely,
American decline will become the new normal too.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ZuXQ9FcfgERVXhC0rQ1f1g==cb7Uj9sHdHdKrVO5fSsDA6A0ZZyJ/f7ies6LfE9y0R3u7QDbSvaug/Skk8a7n4a1vAE"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="mSxKxijMBZ6SHZH09komMg==cb7IwVgiPG8iRqmpx9FBHLauspQePhSRc8Vb9zlDnIB20f6njWliG3s4avs6PIVofGt"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
