---
title: "Into The Void"
date: "2020-11-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-11-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21702"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21702"
---

The Great War not only devastated the physical structure of Europe, it
destroyed the legitimacy of the political infrastructure as well. Once
the legitimacy of the ruling class was gone, their authority was gone
with it. After all, the war was not a natural disaster beyond the
control of the ruling class. It was a disaster created by a ruling class
that could not explain why the war was necessary. When they tried, no
one could believe them, because they had lied the world into war.

The people, looking around at the devastation, wanted to understand why
this terrible thing happened to them. The trouble was the people they
would naturally look to for answers no longer had the trust of the
people. They had squandered their legitimacy waging a pointless
war. Into the void of authority came the liberal democrats, the
communists and the fascists, offering their own narrative to explain the
past and define a future better than the present. The rest is history.

This is a useful thing to keep in mind as the current ruling class of
America counts the votes in the presidential election. Every election is
pitched as momentous, but that is mostly nonsense. The choices put in
front of the voters are always vetted by the ruling elite, so the
results are known in advance. The exception, of course, was Trump in
2016, which is why we have been subjected to close to five years of
shrieking by the ruling class about how Trump is a threat to their
system.

This election could very well turn out to be devastatingly important.
For starters, this is a rare case where both sides are sure they will
win. Usually, both sides know what’s coming long before the vote. The
eventual losing side may have some false hope, but when they lose they
are not surprised. This time, both sides are not only sure they will
win; they think they will win big. This is despite an unprecedented
media barrage offering no possible way for Trump to win on Tuesday.

Both sides come at this from wildly different perspectives. The ruling
class radicals backing the Biden campaign are sure they are the product
of a meritocracy that has earned the right to rule. It is so obvious
that no sane voter would choose any other system, but the one that puts
them at the top. It’s why they remain convinced that Trump won in 2016
by appealing to the dark forces. There’s simply no way that a legitimate
democratic system could have picked Trump.

This time they have used every weapon of the system to make sure those
dark forces don’t prevail. They have bullied the pollsters that serve
the political industrial complex into giving them useful polling data.
They have used their media to flood the zone with fear, uncertainty and
doubt. The same tools they use in their color revolutions abroad have
been deployed here. If Trump wins, then it means the system, at least
the rule-based system, is no longer of any use to them.

Ironically, if Trump wins, the people supporting Trump will conclude
that the people in charge are no longer legitimate authorities. The
polls, the media, the analysis, will all be viewed as an orchestrated
lie campaign. After all, the best and the brightest of the system said
Biden was a metaphysical lock. The result of a Trump win will be that
both sides agree that the system is rotten to the core. The Left will
seek to destroy it while the Right will stand aside and let them do it.

As Stalin said, it is not the votes that count, but who counts the votes
and it is the people counting the votes who are the issue on the ballot.
If Biden wins, most sensible people will assume shenanigans. Joe Biden
has spent the final weeks of the campaign mumbling to empty parking
lots, while Trump is speaking to stadium sized rallies in the key
states. The same observations that lead people to think the polls are a
lie will lead them to think a Biden victory is a lie.

It is heritage America that is the engine of the Trump campaign. These
are people who get misty when they hear God Bless America. They believe
that they are fighting to maintain the greatest system in the world for
the greatest country in the World. All they have to do is vote harder
and the bad guys will be driven from the field and the America they love
will come back to herself. If their monumental efforts fail, then it
means the system has failed. Their America is lost.

The irony of the Left making war on these people is that without these
people there can be no Left, as there is no establishment to support the
Left. Those huge crowds coming out to cheer for Trump are what makes
liberal democracy possible. If they are finally cut off from having a
say in how things are run, then the system begins to falter. Many of
those people coming out for Trump will simply drop out, but many will
look around for an alternative to the corrupt system they now distrust.

One of John F. Kennedy’s script writers said, “Those who make peaceful
revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.” This is
the subtext to this election, as both sides go all in on this election.
For the Left, a Trump win means they are free to make total war on the
system and the people who support it. A Biden win and the veil of
ignorance drops for millions of heritage Americans. One side will decide
that peaceful revolution, even peaceful reform, is no longer possible.

The truth of democracy is it makes everything political. Even the
smallest act becomes a moral signifier, indicating which side you are
on. This is because politics forces everyone to be a partisan. In order
for democracy to work, everyone must participate, which means everyone
picks a side. Partisanship turns everyone into the enemy of someone,
often people they do not know. A country full of enemies is not a
country, but a forest full of dry underbrush waiting for a match.

This is an election where one side will ultimately conclude that the
system itself is no longer worth respecting or defending. The Biden camp
is much closer to that point, maybe even resolved to it, but still
pretending. The Trump side is not there yet, but inching closer. There
is no result that can leave both sides satisfied that the system worked
as intended. Like the period after the Great War, we are entering a
crisis of legitimacy, which begins with the election results.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="b2bCImEiZFEK2oSmT+PoTg==cb74c2KacwSoZcqM4ggepBxKGYhDtfBWnz29v+MzAIHNG3TMUGeGOrUdLeylLs/l2MT"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="eYgwWXt75I4c7yNDWhDQkw==cb7/qVvOpHQKDvOi/LiAnQadRAu6VFAICkCl1wlAKjsTKbL1s8qWCubQpn8qryc+umX"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
