---
title: "The Guns Of Resistance"
date: "2020-01-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19622"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19622"
---

Today is the big pro-gun rally in Richmond Virginia. The rally is in
response to the gun grabbing proposals by the newly ascendant Democrat
party in the state. For the first time in a long time, Democrats gained
control of all three branches of government in the last election and
immediately set about implementing their fantasy agenda. Their first
order of business was a series of vindictive, retributive proposals
aimed at the normal population of the state, starting with guns and gun
owners.

What’s going on in Virginia is a glimpse of what is coming for the
country as a whole as we descend into the multicultural paradise.
Virginia was a solidly normal state over the last seventy years. The
politics were usually uneventful. Most issues were controlled at the
local level. The state government was limited and usually run by the
sorts of people, who thought that was a good thing. Once in a while a
colorful governor would get his name in the paper, but otherwise
politics was sober minded.

Decades of immigration have done to Virginia what it did to California,
with the addition of massive Federal growth in Northern Virginia.
Manufacturing and agricultural concerns have championed the importation
of millions from Central America. Government has imported people from
all over the country into Northern Virginia. The result has been the
same sort of political shift we saw in California. The sprawling urban
areas control state politics, which means the Left controls politics.

Like California, the normal population of the state did not think much
about the massive influx of non-white immigrants. No one thought about
the long-term impact of a million or so left-wing suburbanites from
liberal strongholds moving into Washington suburbs for their government
jobs. Anyone who mentioned it was hooted off the stage, if they were
even allowed on the stage in the first place. It is only now that the
link between demographics and politics is becoming obvious.

This dynamic where the newly arrived take over state politics will be
something we see all over the South and Southwest in the coming decades.
While whites will remain the majority in some cases or the largest
minority in others, white solidarity remains forbidden, both practically
and spiritually. As a result, the usual suspects will divide the white
vote making whites the least powerful group in these states, even as the
newly ascendant non-whites pass explicitly anti-white legislation.

You see some of that with the Virginia rally. The organizers are more
concerned with looking good for the far-Left media covering the event.
They have been telling participants to not bring things like Confederate
flags to the rally. The 2A people still think abiding by liberal
morality is paramount. Inevitably, the FBI will have some of [their
crisis actors](https://twitter.com/ramzpaul/status/1218932051505819648)
at the event, so the media can get photos and video. The organizers will
then invest their time apologizing for it.

This is a great example of the challenge dissidents face in dealing with
the mass of white people in America. On the one hand, the civic
nationalists make optics more important than the message. The racists
and old school race-realists look at these events as a chance to
reinforce the walls of their ghetto. They show up in their silly outfits
waving flags in order to offend, rather than persuade. Both sides are
simply acting out their Progressive conditioning.

That’s what makes effective activism difficult. These gun proposals by
the Democrats are clearly aimed at spiting white people. There’s no
practical point to these laws, other than to stick a finger in the eye
of the sorts of people who don’t support the Left. The attacks on AR-15
ownership, for example, are about sticking it to white people, who are
the people who own these sorts of sporting guns. That should be the
salient point, but the emotional conditioning of whites makes that
difficult.

You’ll note that there is no longer any discussion of crime on the Left
with regards to gun grabbing. Even they have accepted the fact that gun
crime is largely a black problem and now a Hispanic problem. Blacks and
Hispanics shoot one another with handguns, not expensive sporting
rifles. Despite this, the victims of these gun grabbing proposal would
rather gnaw off their own arms than admit it. Generations of
conditioning in anti-racism have had their desired effect.

Make no mistake about the intent. The newly formed ruling class of the
multicultural South and Southwest will first disarm the white
population. They don’t care about blacks and Hispanics shooting one
another. They do hate white people. That’s why Virginia wants to forbid
the private transfer of firearms. That’s the obnoxiously dishonest “gun
show loophole” nonsense. It is the precursor to licensing and then
confiscation. When every gun is accounted for, they can easily be
confiscated.

Another thing you see in Virginia that will apply to the country at
large is the stubborn refusal to accept reality. The people organizing
resistance to these gun grabbing proposals still think America is a
rule-based society. They think if they carefully abide by the rules and
mobilize their supporters, they can win the political game. There’s that
old civic nationalist blind-spot regarding their enemies. They think
they can reason with the other side. The other side will be unmoved by
all of this.

Another important angle to this is the silence from Conservative Inc.
over what is happening in Virginia. Site like National Review and the
Federalist have not talked about it much at all. That’s because
Conservative Inc. is staffed by the urbanite bugmen that staff
Progressive operations. They think guns are scary, so the issue is not
relevant to their project. They are more concerned about getting Twitter
followers. It’s another reminder of which side they will ultimately
support.

In the end, the Virginia Democrats will pass what they like and most
people will go along with it. The value to this side of the great divide
is in opening up the 2A issue as another entry point to dissident
politics. What’s going in Virginia would not happen in a homogeneous
stable society. It is the inevitable result of cosmopolitan globalism
and multiculturalism. White people don’t fear white people owning guns.
It’s the people ruing over white people, who fear white people owning
guns.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
