---
title: "Gaming The Election"
date: "2020-08-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21090"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21090"
---

For most people who plan to vote in the upcoming election, the choice is
clear and they don’t have to think about it very much. They know their
guy is the right choice and the other guy represents the end of the
world as we know it. There is nothing anyone could say to them to change
their mind. In fact, the number of persuadable people probably rounds to
zero. The issue in this election, like most elections, is which side is
able to get their partisans to vote, either in person or by mail.

For dissidents it is not that easy. Once you make it to this side of the
great divide you know elections are not a solution, but, at best,
another opportunity to get more people heading in this direction.
Supporting Trump in 2016 was about breaking the pattern so people were
not as locked into the old political framing. After four years of Trump,
we are faced with a new situation. Is a Trump win better for our side or
is a Biden- Harris win better for our side? The answer is not obvious.

Often, our elections are the opposite of what we assume. The pull of
partisan politics in a liberal democracy tends to warp the thinking of
even the most cynical. In 2000 it seemed obvious that Bush was better
than Gore, but in reality, Gore would have been the better choice for
white Americans. Bush was the worst thing to happen to white America
since the Emancipation Proclamation. Counter-intuitively, Bill Clinton
was one of best presidents for white people in the 20th century.

Additionally, even dissidents can fall into the old Cold War mentality
of judging candidates by their economic or foreign policy pretensions.
The Democrats are the commie doves, while the Republicans are the
capitalist hawks. Even at this late date, many dissidents still cling to
their libertarian or conservative priors. Instead of thinking about the
outcome that serves their people, they think about the outcome that
serves their narrow interests as individuals. Group think is hard.

Then there is the bitter loser problem. Many people circulating on this
side of the great divide were sure Trump was Hitler. When he turned out
to be just another guy, they took it personally, as they personalize
everything. Trump did not just get beat by the system, he deliberately
finked on them. The only way to assuage their hurt feelings is to show
that mean old orange man they are super mad at him. [Richard
Spence](https://twitter.com/RichardBSpencer/status/1293630094271844352)r,
for example, is now “Bobbin for Biden” in this election.

If you can stand outside it all and just look at the two outcomes in
terms of how they would serve the interests of dissidents, the choice is
not so clear. The vinegar club that is now sour on Trump are right that
four more years of Trump are unlikely to result in positive changes for
our side. Trump is not an ideologue and he tends to personalize
everything, so four more years means four more years of squabbling with
illiterates on the cable chat shows, but not much else.

On the other hand, when the Left wins, they tend to make good use of
their opportunity, so Biden winning means they will move the state in
their direction. The most likely outcome of a Biden term in office is an
orgy of globalism. Trump has caused the drive to global corporatism to
stall, so the usual suspects will be eager to make up for lost time once
the addle-minded Biden is in office. On the other hand, the culture war
probably goes on hiatus, as it will no longer be useful to them.

Neither of those outcomes are objectively good or bad for dissidents. If
you are a fatalist, then the Biden acceleration will be appealing. If
you are in the camp that thinks buying time is important, then the Trump
interregnum is appealing. Both of those positions miss the point. This
is a culture war, so public policy only matters in regards to how it
opens the culture to our arguments. In either case, the nature of the
culture war changes very little, so both outcomes are a net neutral.

Now, a Trump loss would open one important avenue for us. It would
reveal to those rank and file white people that the demographics have
now changed and those changes are permanent. That silent majority they
were sure exists is a myth. Instead, whites are effectively a minority
population. Imagine Trump getting 70% of the white vote but losing the
election. All that groveling to non-whites would suddenly become a
bitter rebuke of the old civic nationalist politics.

On the other hand, Trump losing would be cast by Republicans as a
rejection of racist and evil politics of the past. Both faces of the
political class are ready for a campaign to convince those disappointed
whites that the reason Trump lost is they foolishly supported a racist.
Their path to redemption is to wash the feet harder. The ease with which
these people convinced so many to wear their underwear on their head to
ward off the virus should be a warning to the acceleration crowd.

The “win by losing” theory is like libertarianism, in that it sounds
good in the classroom, but it is nonsense in the field. The fact is,
Trump winning would give us more riots and mayhem, so the white
awakening would probably accelerate. The fact is, more white people have
become racially aware in the last three months than in the last three
years, despite Trump’s groveling. There are much larger forces at work
than one election, so the outcome is just one small data point.

That said, winning breeds confidence. Most of the people ready to vote
Trump are more ready for the trip over the great divide than at any
point in their lives. That transformation will continue, regardless of
the outcome, but a little confidence never hurts. In a way, mobilizing
to put Trump over the top is good practice for the sorts of politics
that lie in the near future for these white people. They may not be
ready to know it yet, but their pro-Trump activity is their first step
into the future.

[Greg Johnson pointed
out](https://www.counter-currents.com/2019/07/principles-are-more-important-than-people/),
that small minds focus on people, while average minds focus on events.
Great minds focus on ideas, but it is the combination of these that
provides the full picture. Most of the partisan squabbling on-line about
the election will be among one of those first two camps. What will
matter is how this election serves the promotion of racial awareness
among whites. More specifically, how will the outcome give whites
confidence to look at the world racially?

The critical issue in this election is in how dissidents use it to
promote their interests in their daily lives. Passing around [this
story](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-8615711/Five-year-old-boy-riding-bike-shot-dead-neighbor-25-two-sisters.html)
to whites still trapped in the fog of old politics is more helpful than
mocking those calling Harris a radical or a commie. Instead of mocking
those “boomers’ trapped in the past, offer them a way forward by using
this election to normalize racial politics for them. That’s the gift
Biden gave us by picking Kamala Harris as his running mate.

Ultimately, the result of this election will matter very little. The
demographic die is cast and there is no voting our way out of it.
America will soon function like Spain after the fall of the Roman
Empire. What will matter in this election and for the remaining
elections is how dissidents use these opportunities to awaken white
people to the reality of this age and provide a positive way forward
into white identity politics. It is not about the man or the event, but
about us and our ideas.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
