---
title: "The Year In Review"
date: "2020-12-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22391"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22391"
---

This year has been strange in many ways, but one bit of weirdness that
has gone unnoticed is the paucity of predictions for the coming year.
For as long as anyone reading this has been alive, this time of year has
featured both year in review content and predictions content. This year
both have been limited. Maybe the awfulness of 2020 is keeping people
from thinking much about it. The wild unpredictability we have seen has
probably made forecasters squeamish about predicting anything.

<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19473" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The Light of Lagos</a> was pretty much a dud last year.
The omens got some of the Democrat primary right, but not enough to
claim a victory. Biden did struggle and Warren flamed out early.
Buttigieg did better in Iowa than most expected, but Sanders was the
story until the party rigged the system to install Biden. No one
predicted Biden would win the nomination and no one ever imagined that
buffoon as president, so the omens can be forgiven for missing that one.

The prediction about Conservative Inc. has been spot on, but that was
easy money, so no victory lap there. It will be interesting to see how
they try to pump air back into their thing, given the mood of most
right-wing whites these days. On the other hand, as long as the money
from rich people keeps flowing into their rackets, it probably does not
matter all that much. The rich people pay them to play a role and they
will play the role, even if the audience has walked out of the theater.

Then there is the fact that a lot of whites are so beaten down and
desperate, they will cling to civic nationalism until their dying
breath. Everyone should read the comments at Breitbart or National
Review once in a while, just to be reminded of this. Granted, many of
them move their lips when they read, but most are just frozen in time by
a fear of what is happening all around them. Unless and until there is a
credible alternative, in terms of organizations, Conservative Inc. will
stagger on.

On the sporting front, the Premiere League did not have their first
transgender player, but the whole league is gay now, so that’s close
enough. The Light of Lagos really hates English soccer. So much so there
will be no references to footie, football or the beautiful game in the
future. That said, you have to wonder how the English soccer fans are
making it through Covid without the ability to attend games or get
plastered at the pub watching their team. Boris is playing with fire
over there.

The predictions on Brexit were a swing and miss. It is hard to know what
is in the deal Boris took from the Euros, but it is probably less than
was promised. The deal sailed through Parliament with the support of
Farage. He has been the most hawkish on this of all British politicians.
He may simply be thinking a flawed deal is better than no deal. Half a
loaf is better than no loaf. Still, the omens were wrong about how this
would play out, so it goes in the loss column.

The impeachment fiasco played out as predicted, but that was easy money,
so no victory lap there either. The real shocker is in how the whole
thing was thrown down the memory hole so quickly. No one talks about it.
It’s like how someone gets crazy drunk at a party and makes a fool of
himself. The next day there is some ribbing from friends, but then it is
forgotten. The Democrats danced around with a lampshade on their heads
and after it was over, everyone forgot about it.

Now, the big hit was the Barr stuff. It is amazing how so many people
thought something would happen with that charade for so long. When Trump
brought Barr in it seemed like something would happen, but it quickly
became clear that it was just another coverup. Barr was brought in to
make sure the truth of the FBI corruption never saw the light of day.
You have to wonder if Trump was too stupid to see what was happening or
that he signed off on it, despite his tweets.

The omens were mostly wrong on the election. Net out the obvious fraud
and the results would have been in line with what was predicted, but
that is what is called a gratuitous assertion. The fact is, the result
was nothing like what was predicted, so it goes in the loss column. The
main takeaway is that most people went to bed on election night thinking
Trump won another squeaker, only to learn the next day that mysterious
ballots were found to snatch the victory away. Truly incredible.

Of course, the big miss was the Covid panic and how it has been used to
turn much of America into a penal colony. No one predicted it, because
such a thing seemed implausible just a year ago. It really is shocking
to think about how much has changed in just 12 months. This time last
year people were planning vacations, walking around with no curfew,
having people over to their homes. If someone had predicted this, they
would have been dismissed as a crazy person.

That’s probably why there has not been the usual flood of predictions.
Usually, predictions are a projection of current trends. All the current
trends are as ugly as the people who rule over us. Who wants to think
about what comes next with the Covid stuff or how the empire with fare
with a dementia patient in charge? Given how bad things got so quickly,
who wants to think about what comes next? This has been an ugly year,
made uglier by the thought that things will probably get worse.

That brings up something else. Every year the television networks spend
forty-eight hours doing New Year’s celebrations. They have live shots
from around the world and people reporting at various events. All of
that will be cancelled this year. The bars will be empty in most of the
country. One of the consequences of the Covid tyranny is that people
will not even get to pretend that next year will bring better days.
Instead of coming into the new year with hope, most people are
pessimistic.

That said, the future will belong to those who keep their wits about
them and their eyes trained on the horizon, as the world goes to pieces.
Much of what is happening has been predicted for a long time on this
side of the great divide. It is not coming about exactly as anyone
expected, but the unravelling has begun. What comes next is the fight
over who decides what comes next. We’re all alive, which means we can
still fight and as long as we can fight, the future belongs to us.

Happy New Year.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="t3u4LBrw0qLqez9wwXTD3w==cb7bhauf2v2/TS0NHana5tAR5xCGqmLhwtIFxYshmlkssCHxpE038VNxAJ3Nd35pHST"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ga1kr7Wnrz9kHddccMgSmQ==cb7pnCvUYHYHtYNIcW/HjPtYDJZ/iVea4H5QfbcDxarOcHicCYbmKEH7e88S3l/PGnj"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
