---
title: "Might As Well Nudge"
date: "2020-10-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21469"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21469"
---

Everyone is familiar with psychological warfare, in which information is
used to breakdown the moral of an enemy in wartime. It can also be used
on individuals within a community in order to get them to act in a
specific way. There’s also propaganda, which is an information campaign
used by government to change public opinion or reinforce codes of
conduct. This is no different from a marketing campaign, except the
people doing it can also use force to get the attention of the audience.

Less known is the use of behavior techniques to subtly encourage or
discourage behavior within a population. The idea is to change the
environment so that the desired behavior feels like a natural choice.
Humans are not fully rational and will make choices that are not
entirely in their interests, because of things like peer pressure or
assumptions about what everyone else is doing. The Chinese social credit
system works on these principles to encourage compliance.

One way this is being done in English speaking countries is through the
anathematizing of ideas and concepts the managerial elite wants to
discourage. The coordinated and often theatrical banning of people from
social media, for example. The people targeted often seem random and
nonsensical, but it is not about the people, but about reinforcing an
environmental variable. That is, you can be cut off from your in-line
community for saying the wrong thing, so you best be careful.

The managerial class has used this tool to great effect. The number of
people actually banned from these platforms is quite small, relative to
the overall numbers, but the effect has been enormous. Corporate
censorship and self-censorship are becoming normalized in America. Note
how the term “free speech” is no longer used by anyone but those treated
as subversives and trouble makers. They have changed the environment
regarding speech and the people are complying.

This is what lies behind the rather weird war on white supremacy the
government has been waging since the Charlottesville debacle. We have
black mobs, supported by far-left radicals, rioting in cities and the
government is telling us white supremacy is our greatest enemy. They are
running around arresting <a
href="https://m.startribune.com/arrest-warrant-issued-for-neo-nazi-podcaster-in-lawsuit/572409372/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">alleged white supremacists</a>
on spurious charges. The distinguishing feature of these arrests is <a
href="https://www.bellinghamherald.com/news/local/article238504833.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the pettiness</a> of the
campaign against them.

The people being targeted by law enforcement are not posing a threat to
the public in the conventional sense. They are not sowing discord in the
public or building a huge following of believers. Instead, they are
being used by the managerial class to reinforce the concept that there
is a hard limit on what one can say and do in politics by normalizing
the criminalization of politics. Once this idea gets normalized, the
only questions are what is allowed and who decides.

Obviously, the managerial class is working hard to get the evil Donald
Trump voted out of office next month. Note that there is very little in
the way of a propaganda campaign in favor of Biden and Harris. The
former is mostly in hiding and the latter has been completely forgotten,
despite the fact she is the actual candidate. The goal of the
information campaign is to play a form of three-card Monte, in which the
public never actually sees the option placed in front of them.

Instead of a conventional campaign on behalf of the candidate, we have a
social proof heuristic through the use of polling and media coverage.
Everywhere you turn there are polls telling us how everyone hates Trump.
Polling, we’re told, says he is facing a historic defeat next month. The
media is full of stories about how this group or that group is angry or
disappointed in Trump. They have created an environment in which people
are <a
href="https://www.rasmussenreports.com/public_content/politics/elections/election_2020/trump_voters_are_staying_silent_again_this_year"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">ashamed</a> to say they are
voting for Trump.

Another technique being used is to make voting against Trump the default
option if you wish to escape the insanity of 2020. Many states, for
example, have promised to end the Covid restrictions after the election.
The media is injecting the term “return to normalcy” when discussing a
Biden victory. In other words, having created a highly unpleasant
environment for the public, they are now talking about the one door
through which people can escape the madness of the current year.

The people behind this are not particularly adept at using force to
maintain their position and compel compliance. This has been clear in
the response to the riot campaign waged by the Soros organization this
summer. The politicians all the way up to the President were too timid
to take on the rioters. Instead, their instinct was to out-clever them
until they tired of the violence. These are people uncomfortable with
confrontation, so they went with the indirect approach.

This is the nature of the managerial class. These are not the sorts of
people who relish the big confrontation. They are not lions. They are
foxes. This means that <a
href="https://www.eugenewei.com/blog/2017/3/6/paretos-two-types-of-elites-lions-and-foxes"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">their nature</a> is to use
deceit, cunning and now manipulation through the use of sophisticated
behavior techniques arising from business and economics. Rather than be
faster than the fastest lion, they have removed the lions altogether.
They get to rule by being cleverer and more manipulative than any
potential rival.

This is why Trump is so hated in Washington. He is a lion, at least in
how he presents himself in any competition. He is loud and brash, just
like a lion, because it scares off most competitors. The lion is the
baddest animal on the savanna because it does not have to fight to prove
it. The foxes in Washington fear the very idea of such a person, so they
instinctively work to get him removed from their environment. It is not
about ideology or policy. The clever naturally hate the bold.

Psychological warfare and propaganda have had mixed results, owing to
the nature of the environment and the quality of the people on either
end. What works in theory does not always work in practice. The same is
true for the new behavioral techniques used by the managerial class.
There is also the fact that the evidence supporting their effectiveness
is spotty. Manipulating the environment of a grocery store is possible,
but applying that to a country is questionable.

There’s also the fact that these techniques are largely the product of
the analog age, updated for the digital age. The internet is a force
multiplier that the managerial class can exploit, but it is also an
obstacle. The massive flow of information appears to be making people
less trusting and more skeptical of what comes from the official organs
of the managerial class. Every official lie and half-truth is met with a
correction or a different lie, creating a low trust information
environment.

Put another way, the managerial class maybe extremely clever and adept
at accumulating and manipulating information, but in so doing they are
annihilating the information by degrading the trust environment in which
it is most useful. The more they nudge, the more people resist in
unpredictable ways. They generate polling that says Trump will lose in a
landslide, but the <a
href="https://justthenews.com/government/white-house/gallup-majority-americans-think-trump-will-win-election"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">polling</a> also says most
people think Trump will win re-election despite it all.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="9SkLLEdB3XzFicNLFnglyQ==cb7xPYdUgduiw94L/iqmDEh0oDc1RwPm5B4CTweYg6HFx7OuLbuBlyR2+MiwT9ANwQf"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="P4scPCQGMqfe8X8BK3f1lA==cb7TSI4JY/ltb4rSJGs3b2FqVEwtwLP6Sevkxis0reShLvxPFPcJ9pn04BzaeX4wrkj"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
