---
title: "The Nostalgia Loop"
date: "2020-06-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20680"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20680"
---

**Note:** A good example of a small project in community building is <a
href="https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/cattlecall/the-american-cattleman"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this small documentary</a>
being made about the plight of small ranchers. The people behind it are
the sorts of people dissidents should support. They are not the sort of
people to wash the feet or take the knee. If you have a few bucks to
spare, make a donation to a worthy project by and for our people. It
would be nice to see them reach their rather modest goal this week and
maybe move past it. Thank you in advance.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the strange things that turned up quickly in the Obama
administration was the odd sense of nostalgia about the whole thing.
Lost in all the gaudy rhetoric about the seas rising and the birds
chirping for the black messiah, was the references to old slights and
past failures. It was not explicit, but it was there when you looked at
their agenda as a whole. It was clear that a big part of what was
animating them was a commitment to revisit and settle all those old
scores.

Vengeance has always been a big part of the America Left. This is due to
it being a spiritual enterprise, rather than an ideological one. They
are atoning for past sins, so addressing those past sins is always part
of the agenda. For blacks, vengeance is part of their identity. They
dream of exacting revenge on white people. Still, if you looked
carefully, the Obama agenda was more like a nostalgia tour for the aging
radicals who managed and underwrote his political career.

The best example is health care. This was a fresh wound for the Left and
they were determined to have a do-over, no matter the cost. The
distinguishing feature of that period was the total lack of a plan to
engineer a new health care regime. Instead, they just replayed the early
1990’s, but slightly different. The Iran initiative was a re-do of the
Carter years. This time, they would do negotiations right. The same was
true for their Russia reset. They were spiting Reagan.

It is not just the Left that has been trapped in a nostalgia loop. The
so-called conservatives curdled into a Bill Buckle mystery cult. They
spent the Bush years comparing Bush to Reagan. Then they spent the Obama
years pretending Obama was Carter and their next Reagan was due any
minute. Even Trump has gone in for the nostalgia politics. His MAGA idea
is right out of the 1980’s and he was all set to run a Morning in
America campaign this fall.

You can’t help but notice that the current ructions look like a cheesy
reenactment of the riots of the late 1960’s. There is a distinct lack of
authenticity. For starters, the black riots have as many white people as
blacks. In fact, the whole foot-washer thing is mostly old white people
reminiscing about the old days. There is a very strong Baby Boomer vibe
to the anti-racism thing. They are pretending nothing has changed since
their youth as a way to feel young again.

The young people involved in this stuff are more like hobbyists playing
a role in a historical reenactment than people with legitimate
grievances. The black looters are certainly people from the ghetto
getting some free stuff. The people organizing the actions are bourgeois
bohemians living in the suburbs. In fact, they are upper class members
of the ruling class. Instead of using peasants for a human chessboard,
they are using morons for a game of urban riots.

The nostalgia is most evident in the racial component. They are so
caught up in the role, they are incapable of seeing the absurdity. We
just had four days of funerals for a drug-addled black criminal. All of
the corporate oligarchs are imposing anti-racism on their customers,
even refusing service to them if they are not enthusiastic enough for
the cause, but we supposedly have a white racism problem. We’re
literally worshiping black people right now, but we supposedly have a
racism problem.

It is not just race either. Feminism has been caught in a nostalgia loop
for quite some time now. The whole campus rape culture business was just
a remake of the war on chauvinism from the 60’s and 70’s. In the
original, women in polyester pantsuits complained about men treating
them as sex objects. In the remake, it was frumpy coeds complaining
about horse-faced guys named Haven Monahan ravaging them in their
fraternity. Same bodice ripper, new scenery.

Go back to the Bush years and the anti-war movement was just a bunch of
oldsters reliving their youth through college kids they hired to play
them in the remake of the Vietnam protests. They even used the same
language. Days into Afghanistan, they declared it a quagmire. Note too
that as soon as Bush left the scene, the protests came to a screeching
halt. There were no anti-war Left in the Obama years, despite the fact
he was droning the Muslims on a daily basis.

Step back and look at the last couple of decades and what we seem to be
experiencing is the end point of American Progressivism. They have run
out of great moral crusades, so they are rebooting old franchises. Just
as Hollywood has collapsed into a series of remakes and reboots of old
ideas, the political elite is reduced to replaying old political
battles, but with better graphics. Of course, they make sure they are
the hero in all of these remakes, just in case that was not clear the
first time.

There is also the fact that this ruling elite is probably the most
spoiled and pampered elite since the French Revolution. Scan the resumes
of the people at the top and you don’t find any signs of struggle. Even
the financial elites have ridden the warm thermals of a rigged system.
Jeff Bezos thinks he is Ernst Stavro Blofeld, but in reality, he is the
product of a system that grants massive government subsidies and
protections to a select group of insiders and friends of the system.

As a result, this ruling class operates on the assumption that there is
never any consequence to their actions. The rioters did not burn down
their houses or their businesses last week. They are not going to be
forced into struggle sessions at their office or college job. None of
this affects them. Again, like the aristocrats forcing peasants into a
game of human chess, they get to take it all in as bemused spectators,
enjoying the good life as an insulated ruling class.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
