---
title: "Interview Of Nikole Hannah-Jones"
date: "2020-07-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20816"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20816"
---

*The following is a fictional transcript of a negotiation between white
people and black people in America over reparations. Representing black
people in the negotiations is Nikole Hannah-Jones, a staff writer for
New York Times magazine. She is the creator of the 1619 Project, which
is an ongoing blood libel against white people. Representing white
people of America is the typical white person, who has tried in good
faith for generations to figure out how to include blacks in civil
society.*

**White Person:** Thank you for agreeing to begin this dialogue. Having
read your latest, uh,
<a href="https://archive.is/bJWYI" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">column</a> on reparations, we, and by “we” I mean white
people, have decided that it is time to think about reparations. While
we in no way accept the claim that modern whites owe modern blacks
anything for the alleged crimes of our ancestors, in the furtherance of
peace between the races, we are open to discussing reparations.

**Nikole Hannah-Jones:** Yes, well, as I said in my post, if true
justice and equality are ever to be achieved in the United States, the
country must finally take seriously what it owes black Americans. It is
time for this country to pay its debt. It is time for reparations.

**WP:** Presumably, when you say “the country” you mean white people.
You don’t expect Asians, newly arrived Africans and Native Americans to
be part of this.

**NHJ:** I don’t understand.

**WP:** What don’t you understand?

**NHJ:** I don’t understand what “presumably” means.

**WP:** Oh, I see. Well, I’m here to speak on behalf of white people. I
cannot obligate Asians or newly arrived Africans, or Arabs or anyone
else to reparations. You mentioned white people 197 times in your
column. You mentioned black people 179 times. Asians, Jews, Native
Americans, Arabs and so on were mentioned zero times, so this is about
blacks and whites, correct?

**NHJ:** That’s right. As I said in my piece, generations of white
violence against black bodies has to be addressed. There can be no peace
until white people accept what they owe to black people. Going back to
the very beginning….

**WP:** I don’t mean to cut you off, but I read your piece and I have
read all the other stuff in the 1619 project. Like all white people, I
have grown up hearing the long list of grievances of black people.
That’s why I’m here. We agree. It is time to negotiate a settlement in
order to get racial peace.

**NHJ:** It has been more than 150 years since the white planter class
last called up the slave patrols and deputized every white citizen to
stop, question and subdue any black person who came across their paths
in order to control and surveil a population who refused to submit to
their enslavement. It has been 150 years since white Americans could
enforce slave laws that said white people acting in the interest of the
planter class would not be punished for killing a black person….

**WP:** Okay, okay, I got it. I read the piece, a few times, in fact. If
all you’re going to do here is recite from the list of grievances, then
we are wasting our time. I’m here to talk about reparations.

**NHJ:** If black lives are to truly matter in America, this nation must
move beyond slogans and symbolism. Citizens don’t inherit just the glory
of their nation, but its wrongs too. A truly great country does not
ignore or excuse its sins. It confronts them and then works to make them
right. If we are to be redeemed, if we are to live up to the magnificent
ideals upon which we were founded, we must do what is just.

**WP:** Yes, well, that’s fine, but can you tell us what you mean by pay
its debts? I’ve read all of your work. I’ve read Ta-Nahesi Coates on the
subject of reparations. What seems to be missing is the dollar figure.

**NHJ:** As I said in my piece, generations of white violence against
black bodies has to be addressed. There can be no peace until white
people accept what they owe to black people….

**WP:** Right, I’ll stipulate that. In fact, without qualification, I’ll
stipulate to all of the claims in your work. What I’m here to discuss is
reparations. What number do we put on the check to make black people
whole? What is the debt you expect us to pay?

**NHJ**: As I said in my piece, until white people atone for their
crimes against black people and pay their debt…

**WP:** Hold up, I just said we will stipulate to all of that.

**NHJ:** I don’t know what you mean by “stipulate”, but white people
need to accept their debt to black people. As I wrote in my piece…

**WP:** Sorry to cut you off again, but that’s what stipulate means. We
agree to all the claims made in your work and in the work of others.
We’re not here to debate it or hear another recitation of it. We are
here to negotiate the check.

**NHJ:** Check?

**WP:** Yes. The check. We are prepared to write every descendant of
slaves, even those of mixed race, a check. We’ll pay the debt you feel
you are owed.

**NHJ:** I don’t think a check can cover the pain of 150 years of
suffering…

**WP:** Okay, then what else do you want? Land, like a black homeland? A
ride to the airport? What? Tell me what we have to do to close the books
on this.

**NHJ:** As I said in my piece, until white people atone for their
crimes against black people and pay their debt…

**WP:** I got it. We all get it. That’s why we’re here. What do you want
from us?

**NHJ:** We want justice.

**WP:** Fine. What does that mean? What do we need to do in order for
you to have justice? If it is not a check, then what is it.

**NHJ:** We still want the check.

**WP:** Okay, how much. What’s the number?

**NHJ:** But it can’t just be a check. White people have to atone for
the crimes they have committed against black bodies…

**WP:** Look. I’m starting to lose my patience. We agree to all of that.
What we want to know is what we have to do, in specific terms, in order
for you people to believe you have justice and to believe the debt is
paid. If it is not a check, then what is it?

**NHJ:** As I said in my piece, financial restitution cannot end racism,
of course, but it can certainly mitigate racism’s most devastating
effects. If we do nothing, black Americans may never recover from this
pandemic, and they will certainly never know the equality the nation has
promised.

**WP:** Okay, so what you are saying is there can never be reparations,
as there is no way for you to ever feel you have been repaid.
Reparations means the making of amends for a wrong one has done, by
paying money to or otherwise helping those who have been wronged. It
sounds to me like you will never forgive whites, much less allow whites
to make amends, so what are you asking?

**NHJ:** We want what we were promised.

**WP:** Okay, what were you promised and who promised it to you?

**NHJ:** The civil rights movement ostensibly ended white advantage by
law. And in the gauzy way white Americans tend to view history,
particularly the history of racial inequality, the end of legal
discrimination, after 350 years, is all that was required to vanquish
this dark history and its effects. Changing the laws, too many Americans
have believed, marked the end of the obligation.

**WP:** I see. You don’t really want reparation. What you want is a
raise. You want to live on the guilt of modern white people forever, but
with the condition you get to demand a raise every generation. In fact,
there can never be peace, as that would mean no more raises and maybe no
more white guilt. After all, if we feel we paid our debts to you, we
have no reason to keep paying you.

What you really want is tribute. I think I can speak for the majority of
white people and say we would rather have the Dane. At least with him
the issue was clear.

**NHJ:** I don’t understand.

**WP:** We know.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
