---
title: "A Racket, A Cult And A Corporation"
date: "2020-05-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20386"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20386"
---

In the fullness of time, future historians will write books on their
theories about why liberal democracy came to behave so much like Soviet
communism. The hallmark of Bolshevism was its intolerance of dissent. It
was willing to sacrifice everything in order to prevent individuals or
groups from questioning orthodoxy. This is becoming the defining feature
of liberal democracy. In the name of individual rights and dignity,
western governments are methodically turning into police states.

Take for example
<a href="https://archive.is/U4Exe" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this story</a> out of Germany. State media, with a
reassuring confidence, has reported that a citizen is under surveillance
by the state for holding unapproved ideas and positions. Götz Kubitschek
has been labeled “the whisperer of AfD right wing Björn Höcke” so he is
officially on a list of people good citizens should avoid. The point of
the story and the government action is to anathematize the man in such a
way that regular Germans will be afraid to be in his presence.

Notice the language. “The Office for the Protection of the Constitution
classified him and his institute as extremists.” If anyone’s is curious,
here is the <a
href="https://www.constituteproject.org/constitution/German_Federal_Republic_2012.pdf"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">German constitution</a>. It is
74 pages long. Article five reads in part, “Every person shall have the
right freely to express and disseminate his opinions in speech, writing
and pictures, and to inform himself without hindrance from generally
accessible sources.” As is true all over the West, this part of the
constitution was destroyed to “save” the rest.

Of course, harassing citizens is not about protecting anything. The
Right often makes the mistake conservatives have made for generations in
assuming the Left has a practical reason behind their actions.
Ideologues do not need a practical motive like money or power. In fact,
worldly goods are not motives for ideologues. Rather, they are means to
an end. The ideologue seeks power and influence in order to advance his
agenda, which often just means crushing his opponents.

That was a feature of communist societies. The people at the top of the
party apparatus could count on fanatics and zealots down the ranks to
enforce party discipline. It’s why the military had ideological officers
in the ranks. this was an innovation discovered by the radicals in the
French Revolution. One fanatic willing to report a close friend for
unapproved thoughts is worth ten thousand police. Once no one could be
sure of even their closest relationships, no one dares speak out.

This is what we see with the West. When the state, in the case of
Europe, or Big Tech, in the case of America, declares someone a heretic,
it is with the assumption that the auxiliary volunteer army of fanatics
will take over the policing. You can be sure that Götz Kubitschek will
get the treatment. Germany’s version of Antifa will stalk him, his
family and acquaintances. Radical media will use him as an example for
endless scare stories about extreme right-wing extremist. AfD will be
expected to purge him.

Another feature of the modern liberal democracy and the communist states
is in the role of official media. Let’s assume Herr Kubitschek is a
potentially bad guy and the state has a legitimate interest in him. Why
would they inform the media? They would not do this if he was smuggling
women or running a heroin ring. They would do the opposite and not say a
word to the media. In the case of ideological offenses, however, the
media and the state become partners in policing.

This was a feature of communist societies that has been forgotten. What
little is remembered about the Soviet Union, is jammed into the
Orwellian narrative of the police state. In reality, the communists
figured out that it was cheaper to use soft power than hard power. Sure,
they still arrested people and sent them off to camps, but their most
effective weapon was the control of official truth. Fear of falling
outside of official truth was more than enough to control most people.

As an aside, notice how that whole period is now officially forgotten?
Even people offended by the sorts of things happening to Herr Kubitschek
will not make a reference to the communist systems? Instead, they may
reference you know who, but never the people who perfected the use of
terror in an ideological state. The official narrative has slowly
removed all references to the Cold War and the role of ideological
fanatics from the collective consciousness of the West.

Something that ties the amnesia about communism and the increasing
emulation of it by liberal democracy is something Eric Hoffer observed.
Ideologies can get along just fine without a Utopian vision, but they
must always have an opponent. In the Cold War, liberal democracy could
justify its many compromises by pointing to communism. Once communism
died, it served no purpose. The new devil is populism and nationalism,
so liberal democrats are willing to ape the communist to beat them.

Hoffer also observed, “Up to now, America has not been a good milieu for
the rise of a mass movement. What starts out here as a mass movement
ends up as a racket, a cult, or a corporation.” That was in 1967, so he
can be forgiven for not imagining something that was all three of those
things. That is what we see in America. Liberal democracy is a racket, a
cult and a corporation. The political class operates a racket, the media
runs a cult and woke capital systematizes the whole thing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
