---
title: "The Echo Chamber"
date: "2020-09-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Mass Media
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21224"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21224"
---

For generations now, the mass media has referred to itself as the echo
chamber or the media echo chamber, at least with regards to politics. A
favorite politician or pundit says something pithy or useful and the
media repeats it verbatim until everyone is sick of hearing it. After
the 2010 midterms, Barak Obama used the word “shellacked” as in his team
was “shellacked”, and the media repeated it every hour for days as if it
was wisdom sent down from the heavens.

This was an incite the Clinton crime syndicate figured out how to use to
their advantage back in the 1990’s. They would come up with some slogan
they wanted to get the media repeating. They would then have their mouth
pieces repeat the line over and over in their media appearances. The
media would get the hint and then start repeating the slogan over and
over. What they essentially did is weaponize the natural conformity of
the mass media and use it as a propaganda organ.

The best example of this is the Russian conspiracy stuff from 2016. For
weeks DNC e-mails had been leaked on various forums. The media had been
instructed to ignore them, but people were reading them anyway.
Eventually, Team Clinton came up with the idea of blaming it on Russian
hackers. They sent out someone to brief the press on the campaign plane.
It was like she had a strange form of Tourette’s. She just kept saying
“Russian hacking” like a lunatic.

The fact that it works says a lot of about this age. There are people in
the media and in charge of the media operations that understand this
ploy. You would think someone would call shenanigans on this once in a
while, but it never happens. That’s because the handful of people who
control these big media operations think it benefits their long-term
project. The people working as reporters are just carny-folk now,
willing to say and do anything to keep their acting gig.

Another way the media echo chamber is used to attack the well-being of
the public is through the use of manufactured evidence and phony
experts. The “gun show loophole” is a perfect example. There is no such
thing as a gun show loophole in our gun laws, but the media repeats the
lie, anyway. The reason is the Left supplies so-called experts to repeat
the lie and wave around fake data in support of it. As a result, we have
a label for something that does not actually exist.

The fictional threat of this moment is white supremacy, which no one
bothers to define, but the media is sure exists. The echo chamber is
regularly fed nonsense stuff like
[this](https://www.brookings.edu/blog/order-from-chaos/2020/08/11/how-a-new-administration-might-better-fight-white-supremacist-violence/)
from so-called think tanks. In the first sentence we see several obvious
lies, but they will be echoed by the media. The expectation is that the
Biden campaign will program their candidate to repeat some of this
stuff, so the media will then repeat it for a few weeks after, to drive
home the message.

This is not an accident. This particular scheme is a highly coordinated
effort orchestrated by the usual suspects. Not only do we have Daniel
Byman at Brookings, but there is his old friend <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/domestic-terror--particularly-white-supremacist-violence--as-big-a-threat-as-isis-al-qaeda-dhs-says/2019/09/20/dff8aa4e-dbad-11e9-bfb1-849887369476_story.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Joshua Geltzer</a> from the
Obama administration, now working for a
<a href="https://www.newamerica.org/our-people/joshua-geltzer/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">“New America.”</a> Mentioned
by Brookings as an expert in support of their claim is
<a href="https://www.splcenter.org/about/staff/heidi-beirich"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Heidi Beirich of the SPLC</a>.
She claims to be an expert in extremism, but presumably not extreme
fitness, some other kinds of extremism.

Putting aside the obvious fact that none of the people behind the white
supremacy propaganda campaign were altar boys, they also all have that
weird obsession with Russia that keeps turning up. In this case, they
are making the claim that the imaginary white supremacists are in league
with the invisible army of Russian agents called the <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/06/us/politics/terrorist-label-white-supremacy-Russian-Imperial-Movement.html?referringSource=articleShare"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Russian Imperialist
Movement</a>. The absurdity of calling them white supremacist is
apparently lost on these people.

Stand back and look at this as a whole and we have paranoia over white
supremacy, which is entirely fictional. Then you have all the Russian
conspiracy stuff, which is mostly fictional. Russia, like every country
on earth, has an active interest in the empire, so they try to lobby for
their interests. They are not
<a href="https://youtu.be/XytkI7afHcQ" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">bribing American politicians</a> or <a
href="https://www.politico.com/story/2019/09/12/israel-white-house-spying-devices-1491351"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">planting listening devices
outside the White House</a>, but they have their espionage services like
every country.

While the media echo chamber is useful in promoting the narrow interests
of groups like the Clinton crime syndicate, it is highly susceptible to
subversion by people with agendas at odds with the usual suspects.
That’s the real reason behind these spasmodic efforts to censure
right-wing voices. It is not hard for clever right-wing groups to use
social media to meme their ideas into the echo chamber and have them
rocket around the internet.

That is the weakness of the media echo chamber. It works when it appears
to be organic and natural. If it looks contrived, it actually works
against the people trying to influence the public. Leaving it open makes
it more effective for the people in charge, but it also makes it useful
for their opponents. Closing it off makes the tool useless to the owner,
as well as the opponents. There is no middle ground that works for the
usual suspects, but not for their enemies.

What this means is the efforts to censure the public square will become
less overt in the coming years. Banning people and manipulating search
results is too ham-fisted to work in the modern age. Instead, contrived
terror campaigns like the “white supremacy” stuff or the Russia paranoia
will become the norm. The echo chamber will be flooded with this stuff,
in an effort to drown out dissent. The echo chamber is about to be a
bell rung by the same people all day every day.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
