---
title: "The Rhythms Of Revolution"
date: "2020-10-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Mass Media
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21374"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21374"
---

People who work with large complex systems understand that you don’t
always know what will result from even the smallest change in the
system. Usually this lesson is learned the hard way, by making some
small change that seems simple, only to find out it caused serious
downstream problems. Large complex systems are often highly dependent on
initial conditions. Those small changes to the initial state, after they
branch through the system, can have a huge impact.

This was a point wiser heads made about the Covid panic. The American
economy is a wildly complex nonlinear system. The people in charge of
it, the Federal Reserve, have mastered just one small set of inputs.
This is why they are so cautious about tinkering with the money supply.
They understand that beyond small changes in interest rates, they really
don’t know what will happen. Through necessity they have figured out how
to buy up distressed assets to keep the asset bubble inflated.

Otherwise, no one understands what is happening in the American economy,
outside of their very narrow focus. It’s why the lock downs were an
insane idea. What local governments have done is not dissimilar to what
the Bolsheviks did to the Russian economy after they gained power. This
massive reorganization will not fully play-out for years, maybe decades.
Even at this point, no one seems to know how many people are out of work
or how many businesses survived.

Something similar may be happening with the culture. Up until this year,
the sports entertainment complex was the great distraction. Every type
of sporting event enjoyed wide following on television and on-line. It’s
always hard to know, given how our ruling class lies about everything,
but television ratings for the professional sports leagues were strong
enough to keep raising ad rates. The revenues of the sports leagues kept
growing, despite decades of growth.

That brings us to now, when the ratings for sports entertainment have
suddenly collapsed, even for the marquee events. The NBA, which is the
blackest of black sports, <a
href="https://sports.yahoo.com/game-1-nba-finals-lakers-heat-ratings-low-abc-225636681.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">cannot draw flies</a>. Keep in
mind that the television industry routinely inflates their ratings in
their press releases used by the media. The endless celebration of all
things black for the last five months seems to not have had the effect
they expected. All of the other sports have also seen their ratings
collapse.

It is tempting to blame this on the anti-white pogrom that has been
foolishly embraced by all the sports leagues. There is certainly part of
it. That said, the NFL has tried very hard to minimize this in their
presentation. Even the players have realized that it is bad for
business. The NHL made the required gestures, but otherwise just
operated their business as usual and their ratings were <a
href="https://torontosun.com/sports/hockey/traikos-ratings-showed-that-few-of-you-watched-the-stanley-cup"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">immeasurably small</a>. In
other words, it’s not just the anti-white pogrom killing the circus.

The problems facing sports entertainment all of a sudden are an example
of the large complex system problem. It turns out that the audience for
sport is not just about interest in the product and the quality of the
performance. Sports operates within the larger culture, which is a
highly complex system. There are rhythms to the culture, which carry
things like entertainment through the culture. The lock downs and
resulting insanity have broken those rhythms.

It is not just sports entertainment that have seen their model upended
by the sudden change in the social rhythms. The first debate show also
saw a ratings dip. It was not as big as with sports, but given the
amount of pre-game hype, the gap between reality and expectations is
every bit as large. For six months the people in charge have been
blasting us with anti-Trump agit-prop. Of course, everyone knows Biden
is suffering from the early stages of dementia. Yet, not a lot of
interest.

The American culture had evolved since the Cold War ended to provide the
public with lots of things to keep them busy. For example, the
entertainment rackets grew like a weed starting in the 1990’s. People
forget that sellouts for sporting events were rare into the 1980’s, then
all of a sudden, they were common. There was a time, within living
memory, when people had three television channels. Of course, the
internet of mass entertainment evolved in this time.

Easily forgotten is that politics as entertainment also grew in this
period. In the 1980’s, for example, political junkies had to get by with
magazines, the opinion section of the newspaper and the Sunday talk
shows. People struggled with the idea of an actor running for political
office. Imagine that. The political entertainment complex that evolved
since the Cold War has probably been a bigger distraction for the
American public than sports or Hollywood.

What seems to have happened is the Covid panic and now the color
revolution has broken that system. People are not paying as much
attention to these things as they did just a year ago. That means they
are not being pulled along by the rhythms of that old system. Think
about how many apolitical people that have suddenly been made aware of
the reality of race and ethnicity. Put another way, the revolution of
2020 has changed the initial state of the American system.

How this ripples through the system is unknown. The current chaos may
not be random at all, but determined by the evolving initial state of
white America. In other words, this pogrom we are experiencing may, in
fact, be a reaction to the changing attitudes sensed by the ruling
class. The woke revolution is about restoring the old initial state, but
has instead accelerated the evolution of it. The lock downs provided a
better medium in which this evolution can occur.

At this point, the one safe conclusion we can draw is we have passed
through a strange chaotic barrier on our way to a new normal. The old
order, those old rhythms, are gone for good. That means the social
controls that nudged people along toward the results desired by the
ruling class are no longer working. All the make-believe excitement the
media can generate is not getting people to watch the NBA finals,
because it was never about the hype. It was the social structures, those
rhythms.

In a complex system like a large human society, when the initial
conditions change sufficiently, a new dynamic ensues. The unexpected
downstream effects loop back and inform the evolution of those initial
conditions. The feedback loop between downstream effects and those
evolving initial conditions becomes fuel for the changing state of those
initial conditions. This is the revolutionary dynamic. Change fuels more
change, until the system collapses in on itself.

When the rulers broke the old rhythms with their lock downs, they
started a revolution in the minds of the people over whom they rule. As
those minds now evolve, seeing the reality of the world created by their
betters, the ruling class is desperately trying to contain the process.
Like all radicals, they remain supremely confident they will be the
vanguard of this revolution. Like all revolutionaries, they will end up
swinging from trees as that is the rhythm of every revolution.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="r4fiq36mVT0sla7x0rf7sw==cb7Mw+Dn2quj7JJKQq6MrwfqaQ13aSqEkIB6Vb9h1Y0Q/3jhbxQ+sGPTz3qylY/0DwB"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="lZbtDD28x77ZCfpEmPcvjw==cb7lthO+owg2SqILzLM45oN2+oQfhQNwW+h7dtMGZNqOQQQYUXy9eTslSAAGDcpqONk"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte
