---
title: "Lift Up Your Eyes"
date: "2020-12-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22209"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22209"
---

It is hard to believe, but the British government is now into the fifth
year of negotiations with the EU over withdrawing from the union. The
Brexit referendum passed in June of 2016 and since then there have been
two new Prime Ministers and one national election, all driven by the
issue. Of course, there have been lots of promises to get the deal done,
but it has been one delay after another. They have just announced
[another
delay](https://foreignpolicy.com/2020/12/14/brexit-deadline-is-ditched-as-both-sides-agree-to-go-extra-mile/)
in order to keep negotiating a deal that will never come.

To provide some perspective on all of this, consider the Peace of
Westphalia, which ended the Thirty Years War. The war was one of the
most devastating and complex events in European history. After all sides
were exhausted from war, a conference was arranged for the belligerents
to hash out their differences. A total of 109 delegations arrived and it
took two years. In other words, one of the most complex treaties in
history took less time that these Brexit negotiations.

Of course, as [Farage points
out](https://www.breitbart.com/europe/2020/12/15/farage-we-will-be-told-brexit-name-only-is-fantastic-victory/),
this is all a ruse to prevent Brexit from ever happening, at least not
in the way the people expected. They will keep dragging it out until
they sense the political winds have changed, at which point they have a
second referendum in which the vote is rigged and they get the vote they
want. Alternatively, they will cook up a deal that is basically a sham.
The Brits will be subject to all the same rules, just administered under
the name of Brexit.

This should be familiar by now. The Trump administration was basically
just a four-year delaying action as the ruling class engineered the
election fraud. There was no legislation on any of Trump’s signature
issues. He got no wall money and he got no deal on immigration. Of
course, nothing happened with the FBI’s seditious plot to overturn the
2016 election. At every turn, both parties conspired to prevent the
Trump administration from moving their agenda forward.

From the perspective of the people who actually run things, these
tactics are wonderful displays of democracy. Sure, most people think
democracy means the will of the people, as expressed at the ballot box,
is enacted in legislation, but most people are wrong about this. In
reality, democracy is where the people endorse the preferred option of
the ruling class. That way, the people in charge don’t have to take
responsibility for their actions and face the wrath of the mobs.

This is not just a right-wing complaint. The Pretender Biden is about to
be installed and the Left is already grumbling. Instead of filling his
administration with trannies, angry unmarried females and other assorted
kooks from the valley of the woke, the new administration will be
staffed by flunkies and coat holders there to do the bidding of global
capital. All of those people who volunteered for the Colored Revolution
in 2020 are going to find out they were conned.

This reality will not matter much, as the Republicans will wave the
bloody shirt, demanding their voters support the party. The same people
who spent five years penning “Never Trump” columns will shamelessly
demand that you vote for some block of wood because she is less odious
than the Democrat. You see that in Georgia where all of the usual
toadies are claiming that the two Republican stiffs running for Senate
are all that stand between freedom and communism.

At a certain level, you have to admire the shamelessness. One of those
stiffs is an open borders fanatic who promises to turn the state of
Georgia into a mix of Sinaloa and Africa by flooding the state with
migrants. In other words, the guy who promises the exact opposite of
what GOP voters have been demanding is supposed to be the last line of
defense against the Democrats. While the GOP is begging for votes, they
are literally promising to [genocide their own
voters](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2020/12/15/billionaire-koch-urges-gop-democrats-to-pass-amnesty-increase-immigration/).

All of this, of course, is the reality of liberal democracy. There is an
old expression that no people have ever erected a statue in honor of a
committee. The point being that it is bold men leading their people who
are remembered. The corollary to that is no one has ever faced the wrath
of the mob by voting present on a committee. A rule or policy that seems
to appear ex nihilo from the liberal democratic system may infuriate the
public, but they have no target onto whom they can focus their anger.

Think about it. How did we end up with pornography being pumped into the
mobile devises of our children? When was this vote taken? Who decided
that pornographers were a protected class, but pro-life advocates were
not? How did we end up with tranny story time? You can go down the list
of indignities imposed upon us and not find a single name you can attach
to it. The truth is, the people responsible for it hide in the shadows
of liberal democracy, so they never have to answer for it.

There is an old expression about the gold bugs that goes like this. “If
your rulers are so corrupt that you need hard money to control them,
your rulers are so corrupt that they will find a way around the hard
money.” It is a nice corollary to the old expression, “Locks keep honest
people honest.” In other words, good people need rules to help them
avoid temptation and channel their good intentions. In contrast, bad
people not only ignore the rules, they are constantly seeking to
undermine them.

The old Joseph de Maistre line about people getting the government they
deserve gets thrown around a lot in democracies, as a way to blame the
people for the sins of their rulers, but there is another implication.
The people can, if they can lift up their eyes and take a look at who is
ruling over them, decide that they deserve better than the ruling class
they have and take action. Numbers still matter and if enough of the
public has had enough of their rulers, they can get new rulers.

Just as the slave must first look his master in the eye as an equal,
before he can revolt against his condition, people must first come to
terms with the fact that their rulers are rotten to the core. This is
the prerequisite to getting new rulers. People need to see that it is
not that they have the wrong rules to control their rulers. The problem
is they have the wrong rulers. In other words, instead of focusing their
wrath on the system, they focus their wrath on the people responsible.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="IKuvSF4FFDeIgmCiZZzshw==cb71gFb36QpR36g7Mfj+fAOkdAVlb/MqyZ9aex82az5bmYDPn/cdSOz75xUy/zbydik"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="9iQCRf+g6sXR3aU4Ul3G1w==cb78qAs/2WJXuVuR3Kpi6uw4TkEjbRrlFUhHx2SQ2zawHD1gypns3P9Vci8crHUCLDC"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
