---
title: "American Pericles"
date: "2020-09-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21242"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21242"
---

A popular topic among those less optimistic about the American
Experiment is to compare America to Rome, either the republic or empire.
The former camp looks for the Sulla in the past and the Caesar in the
future. The latter camp looks for evidence that the American Empire is
in its final days, like fifth century Rome. The trouble with comparing
America to Rome is it is not a republic. It has not been since
Gettysburg and is now something closer to a radical democracy.

The more accurate historical analogy for modern [America is ancient
Athens](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20685). While America is not
quite yet a radical democracy, that is the current path. Soon the
electoral college will be circumvented, so that presidents are elected
directly. The Senate was democratized a century ago. The franchise is
universal and will soon extend to anyone currently standing on American
soil. The last ragged bits of republic will soon be gone and America
will be a radical democracy.

Just as the wealthy and powerful in Athens assumed democracy worked best
when they controlled it, the American oligarchs favor democracy because
they believe it insulates them from the public. The factions at the top
are prevented from open warfare because they have a common enemy, the
general welfare. Thus, they are always willing to cooperate in order to
maintain their position, even if it means one faction gains at some
small expense to another faction.

Probably the most important man in the history of the Athenian democracy
was Pericles, the first citizen of Athens, as Thucydides called him. He
was a statesman and general of Athens during the time between the
Persian and the Peloponnesian Wars, which is usually called the Athenian
golden age. He turned the Delian League, which was a federation of
city-states, into an Athenian empire and led the fight against Sparta
during the first two years of the Peloponnesian War.

What is often overlooked about Pericles is that he is responsible for
the structures we now associate with ancient Athens. He began the public
works projects to beautify the city, including the building of the
Parthenon. Most of the surviving structures on the Acropolis, in fact,
were the work of Pericles. It is possible that ancient Greece would have
no hold on the western mind if not for those old ruins. What we think of
when we think of ancient Athens is mostly from the time of Pericles.

Is there an analog to Pericles in the American narrative? The place to
start would be Lincoln, who should be called the founder of America or
possibly the re-founder or second founder. Lincoln destroyed the old
republic and set the country off on the path of becoming a democracy. In
one sentence, thirty words, Lincoln re-positioned the country to rest
upon the Declaration of Independence rather than the Constitution and
the history and debates that surrounded its creation.

The trouble is, Lincoln was not much of a democrat and he was no voice
of the people, as was the case with Pericles. Lincoln really was not all
that fond of the black people he was freeing from bondage. It is not
clear that Lincoln fully understood the ramifications of his project. He
certainly could not foresee his creation becoming first a continental
empire then a global empire in less than a century. He may not have
fully grasped the radicalism and ramifications that was contained in his
Gettysburg speech.

That’s another important aspect of Pericles that is relevant to this
age. He knew exactly what he was doing and he understood the nature of
Athenian democracy. He was often accused of being a populist and a
potential tyrant by the rich and powerful, because he so carefully
courted the approval of the masses. Much of what he accomplished was in
the face of resistance from what we would call the ruling classes of
Athens. Pericles fully understood his projects and its significance.

Pericles was also committed to the general welfare. His first building
project was the walls guarding the city of Athens. This had two
consequences, in addition to protecting the city from attack. One is it
put people to work. Rather than depending upon the generosity of the
wealthy for such endeavors, the people could now count on the state to
provide work on these projects. The other is it protected the poor in
the city, but left the landed estates outside the city exposed.

The most obvious example of such a politician in American history would
be Franklin Roosevelt, as he ushered in the federal public works
project. It is easy to forget just how radical the Roosevelt
administration was in America. The mobilization of the public in the
face of the depression was unprecedented. For close to a century now, it
is assumed that the federal government is responsible for the welfare of
the people, rather than the states or powerful local interests.

Another interesting parallel between FDR and Pericles is that while both
men were high born, from powerful families, they were opposed by the
ruling classes. One of the great political dramas in golden age of
Athens was the struggle between Thucydides, the leader of the
conservative faction, not the historian, and Pericles over spending on
projects like the Parthenon. Pericles outmaneuvered and outwitted
Thucydides and the conservatives to win public approval for his
projects.

Similarly, FDR faced a great deal of resistance to his projects.
Factions in his own coalition objected to part of his program, while
conservatives tried to bottle up his plans in the courts. Like the
opposition to Pericles, the opposition to FDR was also keenly aware that
there was a foreign policy element to the debate. The support for FDR’s
domestic program was tied to support for his policies toward Europe. In
fact, his domestic program was essential to his foreign policy.

Another possible candidate as the American Pericles would be the
combined administration of Kennedy and Johnson. The space program is
probably the closest thing America has to the Acropolis. The reforms of
Johnson, which were largely created by the Kennedy people, haunt us to
this day. Given the current unrest and the demographics of the country,
it is not unreasonable to think that America will never escape the
shadow of the Johnson administration.

Donald Trump, of course, could be the modern Pericles. He is not a great
orator, but Trump has an uncanny ability to resonate with the public,
both good and bad. He’s also a high-born man who sees himself as the
defender of the public. No president has shown a greater concern for the
general welfare since FDR. Unlike FDR, but like Pericles, Trump is faced
with a ruling class committed to stopping him. As with Pericles, their
opposition is strongly linked to foreign policy.

One other way to look at this is that in a democracy of any sort, the
Pericles role is an essential one, as is the role of the oligarchs.
Lacking the legal structures to balance between the natural factions in
society, particularly the rich versus the general public, democracy
evolves these roles in the form of charismatic politicians. Whenever the
relationship between the people and their rulers gets out of balance,
men step forward on behalf of both sides to reestablish an equilibrium

Of course, the other significance of the life of Pericles is that after
his death, Athens was plagued by inferior men, inciting the worst habits
in the public and only concerned with personal popularity. The inability
of Athenian democracy to produce statesmen close to the quality of
Pericles marked the end of the Golden Age of Athens and led to defeat at
the hands of the Spartans. The run of politicians since FDR, with the
exception of Reagan, is another useful parallel to consider.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
