---
title: "Conspiratorial Rule"
date: "2020-10-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21366"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21366"
---

It is hard to know, but most likely the conspiracy theory is one of the
oldest parts of human society. In fact, the popularity of conspiracy
theories is probably a good measure of social trust. Low-trust
societies, like you find in the Middle East, tend to be shot through
with conspiracy theories. High trust societies in Northwest Europe tend
to have less of it, but even they are prone to bouts of conspiracy
mongering. The Great Fear that swept through rural France is a good
example.

In modern times, the conspiracy theory has been formalized. The
assassination of John Kennedy is probably when this formalization
process began. For example, a conspiracy theory needs a series of hard
to accept coincidences. In the case of Kennedy, we have the amazing
marksmanship of the shooter and then his unlikely assassination at the
hands of a Jewish gangster, while he was in police custody. The Jack
Ruby part is what made the whole thing perfect for the conspiracy
theorists.

The first step in a conspiracy theory is that the obvious answer or the
official answer must be eliminated as a lie or implausible. In the case
of the Kennedy assassination, the start of the conspiracy dynamic was
the dismissal of Oswald as the lone actor. It is a variation on the old
Sherlock Holmes line. Once you eliminate the parsimonious explanation,
then the more complex and convoluted explanations become more plausible.
That opens the door to endless speculation.

We see this with the QAnon cult on-line. All of it starts with the
assumption that the obvious answer is wrong. For example, it is plainly
obvious that Bill Barr is covering up the FBI spying scandal. He’s had
years to do what should have taken a few months. Instead of accepting
that rather obvious and plausible explanation, the QAnon people reject
it and instead weave wildly complex theories about how half of
Washington is about to be charged with crimes.

Another aspect of the formal conspiracy theory is the liberal use of the
associative property to connect unrelated events. Person A knows Person
B and Person B once had lunch at the same place as Person C. If any of
these three people can be tied to the event in question, then it is
assumed the other two are connected. The weakest associations are enough
to assume a conspiracy. The associative property is an essential element
of the modern conspiracy theory.

In the case of Kennedy, for example, organized crime is a popular
player, because Jack Ruby was a minor criminal. His tenuous association
with organized crime opens the door for linking any number of underworld
characters with the assassination. It also opens the door for all sorts
of theories about the Kennedy administration’s connections to organized
crime. The associative property then ties communism, organized crime and
the Cuba situation to the assassination.

Probably the most overlooked aspect of the formal conspiracy theory is
the personalizing of complex events. The conspiracy theorist assumes
there is a small group of people behind the events in question. These
super-intelligent, shadowy figures pull the strings from the shadows.
Even when a government agency is at the core of the conspiracy, it is
really a core of individuals within that core that is secretly
manipulating the organization.

This turns up with the spying scandal. The reality is, the
Washington-based intel community is horribly corrupt. The spying and
subsequent cover-up is a product of a culture of corruption in these
institutions. For the conspiracy theorist, that does not work, so they
focus on a few “shot callers.” Of course, it was not just mere partisan
zeal that led them to spy on Trump people. They are part of some shadowy
organization that is secretly doing all sorts of bad things.

Probably the most important part of the modern conspiracy theory is that
it must flatter the person obsessed with it. For the conspiracy buff,
the thrill is in feeling that they have figured it all out. Those
super-intelligent people working in the shadows were not smart enough to
outwit the conspiracy hunter. Everyone else falls for the official
story, but the conspiracy theorist knows the real truth. Paradoxically,
the conspiracy theory makes the world a much simpler and safer place for
them.

The best example right now is the Left’s obsession with white supremacy.
They cannot accept that their vision of Utopia is not very popular.
That’s the first step in a conspiracy theory, the rejection of the most
plausible reason. That allows them to spin wild tales of secret Nazis
and spectral supremacists. Rather than confront reality, which is
frightening and disconcerting, they have created a series of conspiracy
theories to explain why the world is not as they imagine it.

This is why conspiracy theories are a useful metric to gauge social
trust. When order begins to break down, people naturally look for
reasons. That opens the door to speculation and then conspiracy
theories. This, in turn, erodes social trust, which is the foundation
upon which every ruling class rests. As that foundation falters, the
ruling class looks for reasons. Since blaming themselves is always off
the table, they naturally begin to speculate, which opens the door to
conspiracy theories.

America is now ruled by conspiracy theorists. That is clear in the
debate surrounding the first Trump-Biden debate show. The Left is
obsessing over white supremacists and the old Gavin McInnes fan club,
the Proud Boys. They have any number of conspiracies involving those
things, but now they are cooking up conspiracies as to why Trump did not
properly denounce them. It must mean something! For the people in
charge, it is conspiracy theories all the way down.

None of this is to say there are no conspiracies. The FBI spying
scandal, for example, is a good example of a conspiracy. It was corrupt
and self-important mediocrities playing at spymaster. In a functioning
society, they would be in jail now and that would be the end of it. In a
conspiratorial state, they remain free as one side conspires to defeat
the white supremacy conspiracy, while the other conspires to cover it
all up. The QAnon people strap on their aluminum foil hats to sort it
all out.

**Media Note:** My <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=axUkWiRYnWk"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">YouTube conversation</a> with
Cotto and Gottfriedd is now up for the enjoyment of everyone. Make sure
to subscribe to their channel, as it helps them get noticed by the Borg
that controls YouTube. It was a fun show. I don’t do a ton of these live
stream things, so the quality of my performance is inconsistent. I was
quite intoxicated for this one, so I had a good showing.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="0lkdy2a0Pr718qVV8p2q/g==cb74oivuENInurDpWj7vgi6isjxUo56PbMlVMb1RV9ILwhO2Kzdj9WwBPiJqUEUIhiR"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ydFSEBWbTJvyL3A1sOdLfA==cb7PI40FXUZCBFfbx8+3aJeapXX8UEd8cSdDMQr6+UrfK86331GYGFWuCb0NbcEMtOS"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
