---
title: "The Back Of The Hand"
date: "2020-07-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20936"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20936"
---

Establishment types were clucking about the news of Andrew Sullivan
leaving his post at NY Magazine. He wrote a typically long winded
[farewell
column](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2020/07/andrew-sullivan-see-you-next-friday.html),
stating that he was being pushed out by the new woke rabble. Whether or
not that is true is hard to know, as Sullivan is prone to exaggeration
and hysteria, but it was accepted as true by so-called conservatives and
the “old style” liberals. It was another ominous sign that the woke
revolution is consolidating power.

The details of his case are not all that important, as it lines up with
other incidents involving less creative story tellers. The New York
Times has been dealing with a public revolt by the woke young staffers.
These are mostly emotional young women of various flavors, who start
sobbing whenever they hear a discouraging word. Collectively they become
a storm of shrieking harpies that manages to get its way. These tantrums
are now being spun as the new ideological revolution.

The incident itself offers some insight into how left-wing politics has
evolved over the last decade. Sullivan is a competent and productive
writer, but his insights are just banal liberal boilerplate. His act was
always derivative. He is a reboot of Truman Capote or maybe the literary
Liberace. He is a professional homosexual, who says harsh things about
normal Americans, but in a flamboyant and flippant style. The
establishment subversive always puts style over substance.

Nowadays, the outrageous gay guy act is the leisure suit of public
performance. It’s not just out of style, it makes everyone stare at
their shoes. In fact, gay males are now totally out of fashion on the
Left. They have been replaced in the catalog with <a
href="https://external-content.duckduckgo.com/iu/?u=http%3A%2F%2Fbloximages.newyork1.vip.townnews.com%2Flancasteronline.com%2Fcontent%2Ftncms%2Fassets%2Fv3%2Feditorial%2F6%2F08%2F6080f104-aef8-11e4-8f9b-4fb5ae2b9561%2F54d65bccae3b4.image.jpg%3Fcrop%3D1159%252C778%252C16%252C42%26resize%3D939%252C630%26order%3Dcrop%252Cresize&amp;f=1&amp;nofb=1"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">hairy Jewish guys in
sundresses</a>. In fact, the wide array of imaginary sexual identities
has displaced suburban white girl feminism too. In order to get in the
Progressive catalog, you better have at least two things going wrong for
you.

The Sullivan incident and other similar happenings during this phase of
the revolution puts the lie to the whole coalition of the fringes thing.
If there was really an intelligence behind this stuff, playing
four-dimensional political chess, they would not be swapping out the
gays for guys in lady’s underwear. Feminists are also financially and
organizationally strong. In reality, it is the old Progressive hatred of
tradition manifesting itself as a quest for the novel and bizarre.

That’s the thing about the cultural revolution that gets missed. The
communist revolution was serious about remaking society. They wanted to
strip it down to the foundation stones and start fresh. They were even
willing to tear up the foundation if they thought it necessary. The
liberal democratic revolution is more like a redecorating party.  They
are willing to make superficial changes, but only in the areas that
people see. Sullivan was replaced by a new set of drapes and a
transgender garden gnome.

The superficiality of this revolution may have been exposed by the maker
of an energy drink last week. When he found out his females were going
bonkers over the BLM stuff, <a
href="https://www.foxbusiness.com/markets/red-bull-fired-top-us-executives-after-document-leaks-report"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">he fired them</a>. The Red
Bull story may turn out to be an amusing turning point in the
revolution. You can be sure lots of other corporate executives are
looking at that story and wondering if that is not the right course.
Just tell these harpies no and show them the door. The rest will pipe
down in a hurry.

That was always the truth of feminism. All the bellowing about the
patriarchy and male chauvinism was just a desperate cry for a firm hand.
College men cruised the women’s studies department for a reason. It was
where you could find the six who desperately wanted to hear she was a
nine. Professional feminism was just the same thing, but the women were
rapidly approaching the wall. Still, the firm hand worked just as well
and it may turn out to be the antidote the woke pandemic.

This is the paradox of the cultural revolution. The Bolsheviks could
carry on without liberals, monarchist and other types of socialists
fighting with them for control. Once they eliminated their rivals, they
set about creating their society. The same was true of the Maoists and
Khmer Rouge. The old school radicals did not need the constant struggle
to justify their existence. They just needed the specter of it to focus
the attention of the revolution away from the failings of the
revolution.

The modern radical cannot exist without the thing it is claiming as an
enemy and it seeks to destroy. Black identity movements are entirety
dependent on whites tolerating and indulging them. The old feminist line
about a woman needing a man like a fish needs a bicycle was always just
a coping mechanism. Feminism can only exist in the presence of normal
males. Cultural Marxism is just the over indulged third child that
endlessly acts out to get attention from her parents.

This suggests the revolution will continue until it gets the back of the
hand. It will not be happy to dominate the institutions and push its
opposition to the fringes. In fact, the further it pushes its opposition
into the shadows, the angrier it will get, as what it wants is the
confrontation. Starved of that confrontation it will grow increasingly
berserk as it tries to flush out the opposition. It will endlessly
provoke and harass until it gets the back of the hand it so desperately
needs.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
