---
title: "The Garden Gnome Gambit"
date: "2020-03-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Pandemic
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20100"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20100"
---

Everyone is familiar with the garden gnome, the little ornamental
figurines that look the dwarfs from children’s stories. Most people
assume they originated in Germany, but they have their roots in ancient
Rome. Small stone statues depicting the Greco-Roman fertility god
[Priapus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Priapus) were placed in the
garden of Roman citizens. Like many Roman customs, the use of garden
statues spread throughout the empire and eventually we got what we now
call the garden gnome.

Of course, we use garden gnomes to keep the giraffes out of the garden.
Not just any giraffes either. Normal giraffes are not a problem
obviously. It is the albino miniature giraffes that attack the suburban
garden. The liberal use of the garden gnomes has kept the miniature
albino giraffes from terrorizing gardeners for generations. The proof of
this, of course, is that we have no problem with miniature albino
giraffes. In fact, it has worked so well no one has even seen one of
these giraffes.

That may strike you as ridiculous, but it is something to keep in mind
over the next few weeks as our leaders figure out how to unwind this
virus panic. You see, a month ago they had two possible outcomes. One
was the virus spread and killed a bunch of people, which would be very
bad for the ruling class. The other possible outcome was a mild spread
that got little notice and then it petered out. Heads they got blamed
for ignoring a pandemic and tails they get no credit remaining calm
about it.

That’s a bad gamble for a politician, which is probably why Tucker
Carlson talked Trump into declaring total war on the virus. If all
efforts were made to stop the virus, even if it craters the economy, the
possibilities get much better. If the virus runs its course without much
trouble and goes away like every other virus, Trump can declare war and
throw himself a triumph. If the virus turns out to be the [Antonine
Plague](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antonine_Plague), then Trump can
fairly say it would have been much worse if not for his efforts.

What just happened is Trump has flipped the odds on what happens after
the panic subsides this summer. In the do-nothing scenario, one outcome
was neutral and one outcome was terrible. In the do-everything scenario,
the outcomes are reversed. There one great outcome and one mostly
neutral one. If it is the Antonine Plague, civilization collapses and
none of this matters. Since the most likely outcome under all scenarios
was closer to the Honk Kong Flu, this is a neutral result.

This is where the garden gnomes come into the picture. Just as we know
that garden gnomes keep miniature albino giraffes from attacking our
gardens, we know flattening the curb keeps this virus from becoming the
Yellow Death. Anyone questioning these assertions is on the side of the
miniature albino giraffes or the virus. The fact that these assertions
are nonsense is beside the point. If people can be made to believe it,
then these claims are true, as far anyone needs to know or care.

Now, the only way this works is if they can plausibly say they pulled
out all the stops to prevent the worst pandemic in human history. If it
was a bunch of talk and half-measures, they could get blamed for not
doing enough. If the virus was a dud, then they would be accused of
over-reacting to a minor event in order to politicize it. The only way
to make the garden gnome gambit work is to go heavy on the response,
regardless of the consequences. There can be no moderation.

The extreme measures also have the added benefit of swaying the public
that the virus is Godzilla attacking Tokyo. This unprecedented shutdown
of civic life, which is really just getting started, is the real monster
of the story. At this point, you have a better chance to be struck by
lightning than to know a virus victim. Even the girls on social media
have not started faking infection yet. People look at the massive
disruption of daily life and just assume the threat must be genuine.

Now there is one flaw with this approach. The shuttering of the country
is going to come with a massive price tag. Current estimates, for
example, suggest the rosy scenario for the economy is a 5% contraction
in quarter one followed by a 25% contraction in quarter number two. It’s
anyone’s guess as to what will happen in the second half of the year,
but those are numbers that dwarf the first year of the Great Depression.
Maybe after the quarantine is lifted, a massive recovery starts in the
summer.

Of course, as soon as the coast is clear and the virus has been
defeated, Trump throws himself a triumph and launches a new war on the
depression. The people in the breadlines will not be impressed, but if
the economy starts to recover in the summer, he can plausibly say the
sacrifice was worth it. He can do a bunch of campaign stops at
retirement homes to pose with octogenarians spared by the virus. That
all sounds terribly cynical, but politics is a cynical business.

Another side benefit of this is the alarmist can claim to be vindicated.
Like the people claiming their garden gnomes keep the giraffes away, the
alarmists will say these extreme measures headed off an extinction
event. By the end of the summer, they will be telling tales about an
anthropomorphized virus that was eating men whole. Even if they hate
Trump, they will celebrate him for taking their advice. The garden gnome
gambit lets everyone be a hero, no matter the results.

Finally, Trump came to Washington as a chaos agent. He created chaos in
the primary and the general election. His arrival in Washington set off
panic among the establishment that has never subsided. This response to
the virus and the ensuing panic it has caused is best suited for
someone, who thrives in chaos. The garden gnome gambit is also best
employed by someone, who relentlessly boasts about his achievements.
Trump is now fully in control of Washington.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
