---
title: "Our Abductive Mind"
date: "2020-11-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-11-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21856"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21856"
---

**Note:** I have <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/221807"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a heretical post</a> full of
crime-think behind the green door. This is a post about the sitcom *The
Big bang Theory*.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the odd experiences you have on this side of the great divide is
you notice just how many ridiculous things people accept as true. It’s
not just gullible and stupid people who walk around with heads full of
nonsense. Lots of smart and thoughtful people cling to ideas that are
superstitious and primitive. Often people who make the journey to this
side of the great divide struggle with the fact that for most of their
life they have believed things that are ridiculous or devoid of any
truth content.

A good example of something most people think is true, but is complete
nonsense is the claim that your diet determines your health. More
specifically, the claim that the Standard American Diet, as recommended
by the rulers, is the key to long life and healthy lifestyle. That means
lots of carbohydrates, rather than proteins and fats, especially from
meat. Not only is there no truth to these claims, the Standard American
Diet is probably the exact opposite of the truth.

The fact is, outside of the extremes, like starvation or morbid obesity,
diet has little to no impact on your health. All of the “evidence”
trotted out in favor the SAD is based on nonsense studies that are
easily refuted. Humans are omnivores, which means we can survive on a
wide range of foods. The main problem for modern humans is too much
food, so many become obese. Otherwise, the combination of foods you eat
has no measurable impact on your health or your lifespan.

The thing is, you can carefully explain this to someone and they will
nod along maybe, seeming to get what you’re saying, but as soon as they
get the chance, they will repeat the approved lines about diet. A man
who has seen every man in his family get colon cancer, despite their
diet and lifestyle, will cling to the idea that he can prevent colon
cancer by eating oatmeal for breakfast. It’s no different than thinking
he can appease the gods by sacrificing a goat on the prescribed day.

Another great example is mass media. One of the funny things about this
age is the more partisan you are, the more trusting you are of the
media, despite the fact partisans on all sides are sure the media is
covering up the truth. Trump haters have fallen for every race hoax
perpetrated by the media over the last five years. The old alt-right,
the guys sure the media is controlled by little men in volcanoes,
accepted without question the media claims about the Covid pandemic.

The Gell-Mann Amnesia effect is one of those remarkable observations
that gets to the heart of why mass propaganda works. It’s not that good
propaganda tricks people into believing lies. It’s that in every
population, there is a percentage that will believe the lies being
spread. It is not always the same percentage, which is what makes this
so useful to the propagandist. That percentage does the hard work of
repeating the lie in private conversations to friends and family.

Joseph de Maistre said, “False opinions are like false money, struck
first of all by guilty men and thereafter circulated by honest people
who perpetuate the crime without knowing what they are doing.” That
right there is why so many people, even very smart people, believe some
amount of nonsense. They get the nonsense from people they know and
trust, so they are inclined to believe it. At the minimum, they play
along with the nonsense, for the sake of social peace,

This is the great insight of the propagandist. The purveyors of the big
lie don’t start with the big lie, but the small ones. Maybe the small
lies undermine some authority figure in society or maybe they nibble
away at some accepted truth. Other small lies offer alternatives to the
official truth or suggest motivations for why the authority is not being
honest with the people. Over time, the little lies accumulate to the
point where some people are unwilling to believe their own eyes.

Again, the diet stuff is a great example of this. Everyone who goes to a
new doctor has to answer tons of questions about health history and the
health history of family members, maybe going back a generation or two.
They do this because disease runs in the family and disease runs in
families because it is genetic. Yet, the same doctor will tell you to
eat more grains and vegetables and lose a few pounds. A lifetime of
little lies about diet have conditioned him to doubt his own training.

The most likely reason for this strange willingness to accept pretty
lies is that humans are natural story listeners. For a very long time,
most of human history, in fact, humans passed around knowledge with
stories and songs. Most likely, we are wired to be more receptive to a
good tale, than the hard truth. A story about how eating the right food
pleases the gods and brings good health is something our ancestors heard
around the campfire when they first climbed out of the branches.

Our deductive mind is that which allows us to know important truths
about the world, while our inductive mind allows us to think about how
the world should be. That conflict between *is* and *ought* is resolved
by the abductive mind, which resolves these conflicts with amusing tales
and easily remembered sayings that let us ignore these conflicts and
focus on the act of living. Trog angered the gods is more easily
accepted than Trog was eaten by a bear, because that’s what bears do.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="gwwVRJ+/Q6VY8wQpYvEXhg==cb7SL4KxfYl/tJcMxpnp5osN1ypaC0A/EmFW1cJRgUByu5R7OLEMxEruIKD8q8x4uGE"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="NAo6aa7WtRI0EVXqQPNcEg==cb7yDalGxyrCGNHje3dvvApTrBa5hAwuoAJurbeB/Dv1JgQb6edI+zOCCKrVcrguPrw"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
