---
title: "The Loss Of Dignity"
date: "2020-04-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20342"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20342"
---

If you step back and think about it, the normal man can probably list a
dozen things he cannot say in public that he grew up hearing on
television, usually as jokes. Then the jokes were no longer welcome in
polite company and soon they were deemed “not funny” by the sorts of
people who worry about such things. The same was true of simple
observations about the world. Somehow noticing the obvious became
impolite, then it became taboo and finally prohibited.

The reverse is true as well. Middle-aged men can probably think of a
dozen things that were unimaginable or unheard of, which are now fully
normal. Of course, normal is one of those things that is now prohibited.
It implies that something can be abnormal or weird and that itself is
forbidden. The proliferation of novel identities and activities that
demand to be treated with dignity and respect is a function of the old
restraints having been eliminated. When everything is possible you get
everything.

The strange thing about all of this is there is seemingly no point to
it. The proliferation of new taboos was not in response to some harm
being done. In most cases, the taboos are about observable reality. The
people turning up in the public square with novel identities or
activities demanding respect did not exist very long ago. If they did,
not one was curious enough to look into it. The public was happy to
ignore people into unusual activities, as long as they kept it to
themselves.

Of course, none of what we generally call political correctness is
intended to be uplifting or inspirational. The commissars of public
morality like to pretend it is inspiring, but that’s just a way to
entertain themselves. These new identity groups are not demanding the
rest of us seek some higher plane of existence or challenge our
limitations. In fact, it is always in the opposite directions. It’s a
demand to lower standards and give up on our quaint notions of
self-respect and human dignity.

In the Demon In Democracy, Polish academic Ryszard Legutko observed that
liberal democracy had abandoned the concept of dignity. This is the
obligation to behave in a certain way, as determined by your position in
society. Dignity was earned by acting in accordance with the high
standards of the community. In turn, this behavior was rewarded with
greater privilege and responsibility. Failure to live up to one’s duties
would result in the loss of dignity, along with the status it conferred.

Instead, modern liberal democracy awards dignity by default. We are
supposed to respect all choices and all behaviors as being equal. There
are no standards against which to measure human behavior, other than the
standard of absolute, unconditional acceptance. As a result, the most
inventively degenerate and base activities spring from the culture,
almost like a test of the community’s tolerance. Instead of looking up
to the heavens for inspiration, liberal democracies look down in the
gutter.

Dignity comes from maintaining one’s obligations to his position in the
social order, but that requires a fidelity to a social order. It also
requires a connection to the rest of the people in the society. In a
world of deracinated individuals focused solely on getting as much as
they can in order to maximize pleasure, a sense of commitment to the
community is not possible. Democracy assumes we are all equal, therefore
we have no duty to one another as duty requires a hierarchical
relationship.

In the absence of a vertical set of reciprocal relationships, we get
this weird lattice work of horizontal relationships, elevating the
profane and vulgar, while pulling down the noble and honorable. The
public culture is about minimizing and degrading those who participate
in the public culture. In turn, the public culture attracts only those
who cannot be shamed or embarrassed. The great joy of public culture is
to see those who aspire to more get torn down as the crowd roars at
their demise.

The puzzle is why this is a feature of liberal democracy. Ryszard
Legutko places the blame on Protestantism. Their emphasis on original
sin and man’s natural limitations minimized man’s role in the world.
This focus on man’s wretchedness was useful in channeling our urge to
labor and create into useful activities, thus generating great
prosperity, but it left us with a minimalist view of human
accomplishment. We are not worthy to aspire to anything more than the
base and degraded.

It is certainly true that the restraints of Christianity limited the
sorts of behavior that are common today, but he may be putting the cart
before the horse. The emergence of Protestantism in northern Europe was
as much a result of the people and their nature as anything else. Put
more simply, the Protestant work ethic existed before there was such a
thing as a Protestant. The desire to work and delay gratification
evolved over many generations out of environmental necessity.

Still, culture is an important part of man’s environment and
environmental factors shape our evolution. It is not unreasonable to say
that the evolution of Protestant ethics magnified and structured
naturally occurring instincts among the people. With the collapse of
Christianity as a social force in the West, the natural defense to
degeneracy and vulgarity has collapsed with it. As a result, great
plenty is the fuel for a small cohort of deviants to overrun the culture
of liberal democracies.

Even so, there does seem to be something else. Liberal democracy has not
produced great art or great architecture. The Greeks and Romans left us
great things that still inspire the imagination of the man who happens
to gaze upon them. The castles and cathedrals of the medieval period
still awe us. The great flourishing of liberal democracy in the 20th
century gave us Brutalism and dribbles of pain on canvas. The new
century promises us primitives exposing themselves on the internet.

There is something about the liberal democratic order that seeks to
strip us of our dignity and self-respect. Look at what happened in the
former Eastern Bloc countries after communism. Exposed to the narcotic
of liberalism they immediately acquired the same cultural patterns.
Fertility collapsed. Religion collapsed. Marriage and family formation
collapsed. These suddenly free societies got the Western disease as soon
as they were exposed to western liberal democracy.

The reaction we see today is not due to these societies being behind the
times, but due to seeing the ugly face of liberal democracy. It is much
like the reaction to the proliferation of recreational drugs in the
1970’s. At first, it seemed harmless, but then people realized the
horror of unrestrained self-indulgence. That’s what we see in the former
Eastern Bloc. Their leaders still retain some of the old sense of things
and are trying to save their people from the dungeon of modernity.

That still leaves us with the unanswered question. What is it about
liberal democracy that seems to lead to this loss of dignity? It is
possible that such a fabulously efficient system for producing wealth is
a tool mankind is not yet equipped to handle without killing ourselves.
Maybe we are just not built for anything but scarcity. Want gives us
purpose and without it, we lose our reason to exist. Either way, without
dignity, we cannot defend ourselves and the results are inevitable.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
