---
title: "Liar’s Poker"
date: "2020-04-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20356"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20356"
---

The case of General Flynn, which has dragged on for years now, may
finally be reaching a denouement. He was charged with and pleaded guilty
to making false statements to the FBI during the Russian collusion hoax.
For reasons that have not been clear, he was never sentenced. Now it
appears he may never see jail and will instead see his case dropped and
his guilty plea vacated. New evidence shows he was framed by members of
the FBI and Department of Justice.

As is standard procedure in this age, state media has been silent on the
matter, but <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/powell-unsealed-fbi-handwritten-notes-emails-reveal-agents-plotted-perjury-trap-flynn"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">alternative media</a> sources
are <a
href="https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2020/04/29/fbi-notes-released-show-plan-to-frame-michael-flynn-for-logan-act-violation-and-or-lying-about-it-with-goal-for-removal/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">reporting</a> on the release
of classified documents hidden by the government from Flynn’s defense
team in violation of the law. <a
href="https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2020/04/28/former-flynn-counsel-finds-6800-new-pages-of-evidence-not-turned-over-judge-sullivan-is-not-amused/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Thousands of documents</a>
held by his former defense team and hidden from Flynn and his new
attorney’s until now have also been released in what appears to be a
damage control operation by the law firm Covington & Burling.

What these new FBI documents reveal is the FBI and Department of Justice
carefully planned to entrap General Flynn by tricking him into making
inaccurate statements about his activities during the campaign. They did
this because they wanted to remove him from his post in the White House
and hoped he could be manipulated into making accusations against other
administrative officials. Then they systematically lied about what Flynn
said to them in his interview with the FBI.

Compounding this is the fact that the FBI and Departmental of Justice
systematically withheld all documents that could be used by Flynn in his
defense. One way they did this was to hide them in the special counsel
operation. This prevented anyone, not just Flynn’s defense team, from
discovering the plot. The sudden release of long withheld documents by
Covington & Burling suggest they may have been part of the plot to
entrap Flynn and get him to plead guilty to a crime.

At this stage, only a partisan fanatic thinks the principals in this
whole Russian collusion caper were operating in good faith. You could
make the argument that their behavior was unethical, but not necessarily
illegal. Even if their actions violated the law, you could argue they
did so in the belief they were within the bounds of the law. With these
new revelations, it is clear they knew they were breaking the law in an
effort to frame General Flynn as part of a much larger conspiracy.

One thing that is now confirmed with these new revelations is that the
Special Counsel was always just part of a larger effort to cover-up this
conspiracy. In fact, that was the whole point of it. The FBI and DOJ
officials involved in the conspiracy would hide all of the evidence
inside the counsel’s operation. This would make it impossible for the
defense lawyers to access and very difficult for Congress to access. It
would also prevent the administration from looking into it.

Another outrageous aspect to this case is that it appears that Flynn’s
original defense team, Covington & Burling, may have been in on the plot
to frame him. It’s not all that clear at this point, but the best that
can be said of their actions on behalf of their client is they are the
worst law firm in the country. They exist because they have resources
and know how things work in Washington. Despite this, they made the
sorts of errors TV writers would find too ridiculous for a legal drama.

There’s also the fact that this sort of behavior by the FBI and DOJ is
business as usual, which underscores the corruption. This is not a
couple of renegades. This is just how things are done by the government.
They frame people for crimes then work to prevent them from getting a
proper defense. The FBI has a long history of framing the innocent, but
it was always confined to the field offices. Now it is clear that the
institution is rotten from the head to the tail. It is hopelessly
corrupt.

It is also increasingly clear that the weaselly Rod Rosenstein was the
man tasked with orchestrating the cover-up after the election. He
manipulated Sessions and Trump into firing Comey and then agreeing to
the Mueller charade. The only purpose to that operation was to cover up
the illegal spying. Then there is Comey, who claimed under oath to be
the guy who ordered the Flynn investigation. He may have arrogantly
admitted to initiating multiple Federal crimes.

Of course, the big question in all of this is whether Washington is so
hopelessly corrupt that none of this amounts to anything. In banana
republics, the judge in the case would be assassinated or intimidated
into ignoring the facts and sentencing Flynn to jail. We may not be
there yet, but the lack of any substantive investigation into the FBI
corruption suggests no one will be charged with anything. The principals
in this scandal are now in high six figure positions in Washington,
living the good life.

Now, it is possible that Bill Barr was not prepared for the scale of
corruption that has been revealed in this case. He may have truly
thought it was a few bad apples that went off on their own. Once the
scale of the corruption was known, he had to change course and bring in
outside help. It’s just as possible that he is part of the problem. He
is friends will most of these people. His role in this could simply be
part of the how Washington is neutralizing Trump and preparing him for
expulsion.

There is one puzzle that gets no attention. Why would the government
keep delaying Flynn’s sentencing after he agreed to the deal? They said
he was cooperating, but he had nothing to offer them and they knew it.
Perhaps he was just a prop to maintain the greater narrative of the
Russian hoax. By dragging out his process they could feed fake news to
state media, claiming it was from Flynn. That’s seems to be a too cute
by half, given the reality in Washington, but it is possible.

Ineptitude is always a possibility. There’s also the fact that highly
corrupt institutions tend to have lots of internal intrigue and
conflict. The old line about thieves sticking together is a myth. The
corrupt man has no honor. As a result, the last stage for the corrupt
institution is when the people inside beginning to scheme against one
another to the point where they undermined their mutual efforts. Maybe
that’s where things are in Washington now. It’s just one big game of
liar’s poker.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
