---
title: "Our Sound And Fury"
date: "2020-08-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21025"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21025"
---

An old axiom is that the first casualty of war is truth. The facts of
the matter stop being important, so both sides feel free to say what
they like about the other and the issue at the center of their dispute.
Similarly, truth is an early victim of partisanship, as the partisan is
only interested in the interests of his group. By extension, one can say
that truth is always an early victim of politics. The sides have their
interests, which are tied to the people whose interests are being
served.

Of course, what we think of as truth is tangled up in the language. In
communist countries, the full expression of partisanship in their
political struggles meant the language was often humorously dishonest.
More than a few men were condemned to death for the crime of being “a
bourgeois traitor to the proletariat.” In war time, enemies are
described in the most absurd and grotesque terms. often, those epithets
stick with the losers as we see with the last European war.

This connection between language and truth is useful, if we can step out
of our own partisan sensibilities, in assessing the rationality of a
society. North Korea is a good example of this. The gap between official
truth and actual truth is so broad in many cases, it lurches into
caricature. Iran is another example. Her leaders make claims that strike
most people as deliberately ridiculous. This wild language is the result
of a great gap between official truth and the actual truth.

Of course, this is turning up in our own society. We live in an
increasingly unreasonable age, so the claims of partisans become
increasingly unreasonable. The absurdity of calling Trump a dictator,
for example, could be excused as fashionable exaggeration, but the
people doing it are not exaggerating. Similarly, they are deadly serious
when they claim he and his supported are racist, who want to bring back
slavery. Their absurd language, reflects absurd beliefs by absurd
people.

There is an argument that healthy politics will necessarily have a high
degree of exaggeration, as the participants seek to persuade. Since
persuasion is the key to democratic governance, the people coming up
with these outlandish arguments are, in a fashion, displaying support
for the system. They still believe in the fifty percent plus one model,
so they pull out all the stops to convince others. Their over-the-top
language is, in effect, a signal of their support for democracy.

Maybe there is some truth to it, but we have lots of examples outside
the narrow realm of retail politics to suggest otherwise. Look at the
great conflagrations on the streets of our cities this summer. Much of
it has been organized by people who claim to be opposed to fascism.
That’s their reason to exist. Like the communist of old, they oppose
fascists and defend democracy. The fact that there are no actual
fascists in America does not seem to matter much to them.

The closest thing we have to genuine fascist in modern America are the
people claiming to be anti-fascists. The old commies considered
capitalists and the middle-class as enemies to their cause. Modern
communists have corporate sponsors, are loaded down with consumer goods
and come from the middle-class. It’s as if they are on some weird
vacation where they get to pretend to be left-wing radicals from a
century ago, while not giving up their Wi-Fi access and vegan lunches.

Those corporate and political sponsors of the ant-fascists are defending
a political-economy that would be very familiar to the old fascists. Our
modern ruling order is a combination of political and corporate
interests, with the welfare of the people being the stated objective of
both. Large swaths of political power have been handed to corporate
giants, in exchange for defense of their corporate interests by the
state. It’s why every corporate ad tells us how much the care about us.

America is a fascist country now. It may lack the snappy uniforms and
martial order one tends to associate with fascism, but the
political-economy of the country is much closer to fascism than Marxism,
Capitalism or Republicanism. It is feminine, bourgeois and
passive-aggressive, but fascist nonetheless. It will not be long before
the official creed of our liberal democracy is, “Everything for the
community, nothing outside the community, nothing against the
community.”

Now, it should be noted that there are people who occasionally hoist the
banner of fascism, but their claims are just as disconnected from
reality. Usually, they begin and end with antisemitism, as if that is
the only characteristic of fascism. If their politics advance much
beyond that, it looks much closer to a crude form of Bolshevism than
anything one could classify as fascism. The fascists of a century ago
would have viewed them as just another enemy on the street.

For example, one camp of the former alt-right that still goes in for the
fascist language and aesthetic wants a centrally planned economy. They
want one government bank to provide all banking services, like the post
office. They have even flirted at times with the term National
Bolshevism. Putting aside the historical partisanship, no fascist, when
fascism was a real thing, would have embraced this type of economics. In
fact, they would have rejected it as anti-fascist.

Then there is another camp that embraces the ethno-state. Richard
Spencer gets the credit for popularizing the idea, but it was not his
invention. The idea has been around in Europe since at least the 19th
century. The Bolsheviks, of course, would have completely agreed with
the notion of a unified people. They would have limited it to the
proletariat, but they supported the end of the nation-state. The
fascists, in contrast, completely rejected the elimination of the nation
state.

Those are just the easiest examples. When you look around, our language
is now disconnected from our political reality. The labels used to
describe the various sides in political fights historically meaningless.
Those saying they are defending democracy are in fact trying to
eliminate it. Those who supposedly want authoritarianism really want
something closer to a bourgeois civic utopia. Conservatives fight anyone
actually trying to conserve anything and liberals oppose actual
liberalism.

The madhouse nature of our political language has a lot to do with the
rise of mediocrity to positions of power. Maybe nature has withdrawn her
favor and we are an increasingly stupid species. Maybe our system
rewards the ignorant. Maybe there is some other reason for the dominance
of simpletons in our politics. Stupid people communicate in basic
language, so they have borrowed the crude juxtapositions of the last
century and repurposed them into new partisan labels.

This is what makes this age so maddening to the sober minded. Even
accounting for the fact that objectivity must yield to partisanship,
there should be some truth content to the partisan rhetoric. Their
partisanship should actually be in furtherance of their interests or the
interests of the group they claim represent. The lies and
misrepresentations should have some purpose. What’s the purpose of
“Anti-fascism brought to you by Amazon World Services”?

Another possible explanation for all this is Fukuyama was right in a
sense that we have reached the end of liberal democracy. There’s no way
forward, so people rummage around in the past for the outfits of the
ancestors and then go out on the public stage and reenact old fights.
Politics is now a poor player that struts and frets his hour upon the
stage and then is heard no more. It is a tale told by an idiot, full of
sound and fury, signifying nothing.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
