---
title: "Flight 93 Crashed"
date: "2020-07-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20899"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20899"
---

The sad story of Jeff Session and immigration patriotism came to an end
in the Alabama senate run-off. Sessions was soundly beaten by former
football coach and Mitch McConnell sock puppet, Tommy Tuberville. Of
course, President Trump was ebullient, as he had campaigned against his
old friend and supporter in one of his now typical fits of rage. He
blames Sessions for his many blunders early in his tenure. Trump will
not have Jeff Sessions to kick around anymore.

It is also the death of immigration patriotism. Sessions was always the
best on immigration when he was in the Senate. He actually got some real
things done on the administrative side when he was in the
administration. Tuberville, in contrast, is just a dope who spent his
life coddling black guys who can run fast. Washington recruited him,
because they were right about the voters of Alabama. They care more
about sportsball than the future of their grandchildren.

Trump and his stage handlers will read this as confirmation that his
base is too dumb to care about the issues. They will just fall in behind
their orange hero. It is the same madness that happened in the Bush
re-election. Bush finked on his voters for four years, but won a second
term by pointing at the Democrats. The implication was, “vote for Bush
unless you want those terrible people to be right.” The
[mouth-breathers](https://theconservativetreehouse.com/2020/07/14/tuberville-crushes-sessions-in-alabama-primary-senate-race/)
are doing exactly as expected. They are trusting the plan.

Whether or not this works is hard to know. In 2004, the goal was to get
something close to 60% of the white vote. Bush did reasonably well with
Hispanics and blacks were not angry about anything in particular. Whites
were 77% of the vote, so getting in the high fifties was the goal. Given
the partisanship in states in the Northeast, losing those white votes
was meaningless unless it hurt with white votes in competitive states.
Bush got 58% of the white vote and enough Hispanic support to win.

In 2020, Trump will need to get something closer to 70% of the white
vote. That’s due to the declining white share and the fact blacks are
super-angry now. Despite his foot-washing for four years, they still
think he is an orange supremacist and horrible racist. What does not get
discussed in public, but has surely been discussed in private, is the
math of this election. In 2016, whites made up 70% of the vote. In 2020
it will be 65%. The actuarial tables are working against Trump and the
GOP.

Putting that aside, Trump will feel vindicated in his decision to
abandon immigration and could very well swing the other way. He told
some Mexican media outlet that he plans to amnesty the DACA people. He
just reversed course on the student visa scam. In an age where American
college students must stay home and do their college work on-line, the
children of Chinese Communist Party members will get student visas so
they can attend classes on American campuses.

The inner party, of course, understands the math entirely. In fact, they
have been working hard to create this math since the 1960’s. Just as
immigrants were used as union busters in the industrial age, immigrants
are used as coalition busters in the liberal democratic age. The way for
a small group to maintain power is to make sure there are no natural
coalitions that can form up and challenge for power. That’s the game in
America and it has worked.

Getting back to the Sessions story, it is a great example of how the
inner party uses partisanship as a tool. The left-wing crazies hate
Trump for no reason other than they were told he is very bad. They hated
Bush too. In both cases, there was no real policy dispute at the core of
their hatred. They hated Bush because he claimed to be an Evangelical
Christian. They hate Trump because reasons. Their rage is just pure
partisan hatred of the perceived outsider.

This has the perverse result of turning those outside the Progressive
camp into supporters of the thing they hate. Otherwise conservative
people fervently supported Bush in the 2004 elections, despite is
liberal policies. Something similar is happening with Trump in this
election. No one is really going to vote for Trump. They will vote
against what they perceive to be the other option, which is street
violence, statue toppling and the endless lectures on race from the
media.

Regardless, the end of Jeff Sessions marks the end of immigration,
nationalism and populism as salient forces in official politics. The
2016 election was called the Flight 93 election, as it was the last
desperate chance to save the country. Well, flight 93 crashed and killed
everyone onboard. That last desperate dash to save the day failed. The
last desperate attempt to save the system in 2016 has also failed. The
inner party gained control of the Trump administration and flew it into
the ground.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
