---
title: "Meta-Movie Man"
date: "2020-02-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19940"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19940"
---

They say art holds a mirror up to society, which means something becomes
art when it reveals the nature of society or just nature itself. The
classical nude statues are art, rather than pornography, because they
are idealized representations created to celebrate the human form.
Literature becomes art when it portrays society in such a way that it
reveals certain truths about the age. For example, The Great Gatsby is
art, because it captures the age and the reality of materialism.

Whether or not movies can rise to the level of art is debatable, as the
medium is superficial by design. Another aspect of art is it tempts the
person experiencing it to think about things they may not be naturally
inclined to consider. Motion pictures are a passive medium, encouraging
the viewer to relax and let the images flashing past him do all the
heavy lifting. Citizen Kane is considered the best film ever made, but
it does not rival literature in terms of artistic impact.

That said, maybe movies should be judged on a narrower artistic
standard, in that maybe the best they can do is reflect attitudes of the
age. The science fiction shows on the later-50’s and early-60’s, for
example, reveal the optimism of the age with regards to scientific
progress. Fast forward a generation and science fiction films reveal the
fear and disappointment in science. Today, science fiction is mostly
multicultural personal drama in space, revealing the feminization of our
age.

In other words, like pop music, a movie can be considered art if it
comes to symbolize the times in which it was made. The 1970’s movie
Saturday Night Fever can be called art, because it reflects the
vulgarity of the time. The movie Terminator is a reflection of the
anxiety over the Cold War and the nuclear arms race. These movies are
not art because they achieve some high technical standard, but simply
because they were popular, touching some nerve with the public at the
time.

It is a low standard, for sure, but popular culture is a low-brow
product made for profit, not artistic achievement. The performers and
characters in the business of producing this content can call themselves
artists, but in reality, they are just the modern version of carny-folk,
tolerated by society for entertainment purposes. The elevation of the
profane in the modern age, is itself a statement about the age and the
people, who have taken over control of the culture. Our is the age of
vulgarians.

Putting that aside, by this standard, Quentin Tarantino is probably one
of the great artists of the modern age. His movies tend to reflect some
aspect of the times, in an exaggerated and juvenile manner. He makes
movies that his ten-year-old self wanted to see, so they tend to lack
anything resembling complexity and instead feature exaggerated
characters that even a child can grasp. They are morality tales for
stupid people, who are not all that interested in lectures about
morality.

His latest film, *Once Upon a Time… in Hollywood*, is a long boring
buddy story about a fading television actor. It is set in late-1960’s
Los Angeles and references every popular news event of the period. The
point of the film is to tell the people, who came of age in that time,
especially those who grew up in Los Angeles, that it was a great time to
be a young American. It was also a great time to be famous, as you got
to party and bang starlets, even if you were a minor television star.

Tarantino, of course, is a meta-movie maker. He tends to make movies
about movies and the world around movies. All of his shows are
celebratory versions of the B-movies he watched growing up as a kid. In
some respects, he is the Gen-X movie maker, in that his stories never
end well, but the bad endings don’t offer a larger critique of the times
or offer a lesson about the characters. In other ways, they lampoon the
long shadow of the Baby Boom culture the 60’s and 70’s.

You see that in his latest film. The people are living in an idyllic
time, where they can have great lives with little actual work. That time
in California was probably the best time and place to live in post-war
America. Yet, the degeneracy of the people and the pointlessness of
their existence eventually destroyed that society. Modern Los Angeles is
homeless camps and third world peasants. A white person growing up in
that squalor will come to hate their ancestors for having created it.

That’s the funny thing with Tarantino. He grew up watching cheesy
B-movies and re-runs of 1960’s television shows. Much of that content
was science fiction. Yet, he has yet to make a movie about the future or
even a B-movie version of it. The space movies of his youth would make
good fodder for his brand of film, but instead all of his stuff is set
in the past. From an artistic perspective, he is a man backing through
life, watching was passes into the fading mists of his age.

Again, whether movies can be considered art is debatable. Art should be
lasting and movies just don’t hold up over time. Still, by a lower
standard, one that simply relies on cultural relevance, Tarantino would
be counted as an artist. His movies speak to a people living in steep
cultural and demographic decline. His latest celebrates the memories of
a generation who will literally be gone in a generation. *Once Upon a
Time… in Hollywood* is an epitaph for a generation and a nation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
