---
title: "Wither The Bernie Bros"
date: "2020-04-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20326"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20326"
---

Lost in all the excitement of the government crackdown this past six
weeks has been the fact that the Inner Party crushed the Bernie Bros.
The party did not just outmaneuver them like they did in 2016, but they
humiliated them. Their champion was forced to endorse the first
Alzheimer American to run for president, while hiding in one of his
mansions during the crackdown. The party made clear that they will not
tolerate any more nonsense from the Bernie Bros going forward.

It was an impressive performance by the Inner Party. Once they decided
it was time to end the Sanders nonsense, they wheeled around after the
South Carolina primary and eliminated everyone but Alzheimer Joe,
forcing each candidate to endorse Biden in a well-choreographed media
blitz. They also had the media ready to promote each event through all
of the official channels. Compared to the fumbling and bumbling of the
Outer Party performance in 2016, it was a masterful show.

From the establishment perspective, the matter is resolved. Much as the
Outer Party believed they had eliminated Buchananism forever in 1996,
only to see themselves eaten alive by the cancer of Bushism, the Inner
Party is sure they have put their crazies back in their boxes for good.
They will tolerate brown bomb throwers like Ocasio-Cortez and Rashida
Tlaib, because they are useful decorations. In the new, hip Inner Party,
Maxine waters is replaced with wacky New Arrivals.

That said, what Sanders revealed in his two presidential runs is there
is a substantial portion of the Democrat coalition that is uninterested
in neo-liberalism. Like many people flying the White Nationalist banner,
these people don’t like modernity very much, but have no way to look
past it for an alternative moral framework. Instead, they look backward
to a long gone past for an alternative. For them, it is industrial age
socialism. They dream of being serenaded by folk singers as the rally
against capitalism.

Unlike the people drawn to the former alt-right, the Bernie Bro world is
much more colorful and culturally diverse. The alt-right was almost
exclusively suburban, middle-class white boys. The Bernie Bros are
disaffected young working-class whites, left-wing Jews and educated New
Arrivals. The New Arrivals have benefited greatly from the current
system, but are frustrated that they are slated to be nothing more than
decorations for the Inner Party, so they are looking elsewhere.

The Inner Party is betting the New Arrivals will choose to stick with
the plan, as being relegated to the outer darkness of political
obscurity does not pay as well. People like Rashida Tlaib and
Ocasio-Cortez are not giving up the endless attention to lock arms with
the dumpy and depressed children of old white working-class America.
Instead, they will be the party spear throwers. The Inner Party will
feed them new ideas to champion and they will sell them on party media
platforms.

The radical Jews in the Bernie Bro movement are small in number and
easily dealt with, as they are a permanent feature of the American Left.
That leaves the white working-class element. Like the hard-core greens,
who followed Nader out of the party, but sort of drifted back in, these
voters seem less willing to fall in line with the Inner Party mandates.
Many voted third party in 2016 or voted for Trump. This time most of
these voters will simply abandon the election entirely

Now, the numbers for this cohort are not easy to figure, as there is not
much in the way of polling to determine the size and characteristics of
these voters. Since the Inner Party just wants them to die, the polling
outfits and media are not allowed to look too closely at their issues.
We’re left to guess by using what we see on social media and from the
primaries in 2016 and 2020. Against Clinton, Sanders got 16 million
votes. In 2020, he got half that in a truncated crowded race.

That means the size of the cohort is between those two numbers, but once
you strip away the New Arrivals and adjust for other factors, the real
range is between 5-10 million people or about 3-6% of the total vote. In
other words, it is not an insignificant portion of the voting pool. It’s
why Trump continually makes overtures to those voters whenever he talks
politics or economics. It’s also why the Inner Party is now
anathematizing the Bernie Bro media personalities.

That’s probably the best way for the Inner Party to handle these people.
If they marginalize their leaders and media personalities, they have no
rallying point, so they cannot organize themselves. All of those “dirt
bag left” YouTube characters better get familiar with D-Live and other
fringe social media platforms. They also better get ready to be treated
like lepers at the Democrat convention. They will be purged from all
sanctioned platforms. The valley of the damned will be getting crowded.

Now, it must be mentioned that the kookier elements of the now defunct
alt-right think they can build a red-brown alliance with the Bernie
Bros. Counter-Currents did <a
href="https://www.counter-currents.com/2020/04/the-fantasy-red-brown-alliance/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a long post</a> on the
ridiculousness of these ideas. The “wignats” as the author calls the
remains of the alt-right movement, are delusional. Too much of what
defines the Bernie Bros is an opposition to crackpots embracing fascism.
The grand Red-Brown entente is as likely as a Muslim – Zionist grand
bargain to rule the West.

One amusing aspect of the Brown overtures to the Red side is the Browns
are using the language of Marxism to do it. They try to explain to the
Red that they are suffering from a false consciousness and need to
examine who really controls their lives. It’s not a lot different than
Breitbart types trying to own the libs by showing how much more
anti-racist they are than the Democrats. Instead of “Dems Are The Real
Racists” it is “White Nationalists Are The Real Socialists.”

In the end, the most likely result for the Bernie Bros is the same that
we have seen with the patriotic white working class. Unable to move in
any direction without compromising something vital to their identity,
this group has just faded from the scene. Trump brought them out of the
shadows to some degree in the 2016 general election and may do so again
in 2020, but after that they will disappear from the electoral map. The
Bernie Bros will follow the same path into obscurity.

The reason for this is that political movements based only in grievances
are short-lived and ones based in incoherent grievances are even shorter
lived. That is the common thread to the proposed Red-Brown alliance.
Both sides answer to “what are you rebelling against?” is “what have you
got?” They don’t know why they are unhappy and they don’t know what they
want if not the present, so they rummage in the past for the trappings
of meaning, fraternity and purpose.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
