---
title: "The End Of The Beginning"
date: "2020-08-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21071"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21071"
---

For months now, the more cynical have suggested the lock downs will
continue into the fall, as the hysteria has become something of a
religion. The facts on the ground are useful to the panic party in so
far as they can be used to support the idea that this plague is a curse
sent from nature because of Trump. They hope the self-inflicted
suffering will purge the lands of orange come November. Word now comes
that they plan to [cancel college
football](https://www.espn.com/college-football/story/_/id/29629669/power-5-talking-no-fall-football)
this week.

There’s no public health reason for cancelling college sports this fall
or for keeping the kids of campus, which many colleges are doing. Many
colleges will be on-line only this fall, meaning it will be a full year
of virtual learning for their students. It was not that long ago when
these very same colleges said on-line learning was terrible. Students
needed personal interaction with their teachers and fellow students.
Like so much that comes from the Left, that was true only while it was
useful.

As far as college football, the plan was to minimize attendance at the
games and make sure the players were tested on a daily basis. The only
thing missing from the regime was daily dips into vats of hand
sanitizer. Despite it all, the people who run big time college sports
have been bullied into shutting down. This should put to rest that the
people behind this stuff are motivated by money or power. They are
tossing away billions and their grip on millions of people’s attention.

Sport has always been a window into what lies behind the general
culture. In this case, the plight of sport reflects what is happening in
society as a whole. The efforts to restart professional baseball,
basketball and hockey have been a disaster, because the stripped-down
versions lack essential ingredients. Like everything else about a big
complicated society, sport evolved over time to work a certain way.
Rebooting it without essential elements like a live audience does not
work.

The people running the NBA and NHL are a reflection of the [people
running the country](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=7805) as a whole.
They have the problem all outsiders have, in that they see the parts of
society and can navigate through them, but they can’t see the invisible
bonds that hold those parts in relation to one another. Their scheme to
restart their respective sports made sense to them on paper, but to the
rest of us it is like trying to impose the metric system or soccer. It’s
alien and weird.

There’s also the social aspect to the popularity of sports. Football
became the dominant sport because it is the best television sport. It
was the one thing people could talk about at the office with no
problems. It’s why so many companies encouraged their people to sport
the colors of the hometown team on casual Friday. The popularity of
sports like football had as much to do with their place in the social
fabric as their popularity as an entertainment product. Big time sports
fill a social niche.

The people in charge predicted people were suffering from a form of
phantom limb syndrome and that the return of any sports would be a
success. Instead, baseball, basketball and hockey are not drawing much
interest. People moved on in the short time those sports were off the
air. Football will most likely face the same fate if it goes dark this
autumn. Sports passion is like a fire. It requires constant tending and
fuel in order to keep burning. Once it goes out, it stays out.

What’s happening with sports also puts to bed the notion that the people
in charge are playing 4-D chess in order to maintain their power.
Keeping white people locked into sports watching was always about crowd
control. Nowhere is egalitarianism and anti-racism sold harder to more
white people than at a sporting event. It is the one place where
multiculturalism appears to work. Take that away and normal white people
are left to watch white radicals and black activists riot in the cities.

What lies ahead for sports entertainment, maybe all big-time
entertainment, is what small business is facing right now. Every
business has a cost structure that reflects its revenue stream. Seasonal
business has seasonable const structures. Small business has low cost
structures. Global sport has a cost structure that requires millions to
spend billions every year. Suddenly, owning a big fancy sports arena is
not such a great idea in a world where large gatherings are prohibited.

There is a general assumption that the Covid stuff comes to an end with
either the defeat of Trump in November or one final tantrum in January
if he wins. At that point, the practical reality of life will force this
charade to come to an end. That’s true, most likely, for this phase of
the process. Economic necessity will force the people in charge to
relent or civil unrest will force it. Unless this is really a simulation
and the base code has been altered, this cannot continue much longer.

That’s just the end of this phase. The breaking of the sports
entertainment model will have far reaching consequences. Tens of
millions of people will fill in the gaps left by tailgates, trips to the
alma mater, weekend parties glued to the television and billions spent
on sports entertainment. All of a sudden, the sort of liberal guy you
used to talk to about the football team is not a guy you talk to at all.
Instead of talking to the conservative guy about sports, you talk about
other stuff.

Even the most basic human societies are a highly complex web of
interpersonal relationships that operate within a hard to define thing
we call culture. A big diverse country like America has a degree of
complexity that we cannot comprehend, other than to have the wisdom to
accept that reality. The people in charge have thrown sand in all the
gears of the machinery, machinery that has allowed them to rise to the
top of the social hierarchy. Sports will soon be the least of their
problems.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
