---
title: "Our Gang"
date: "2020-10-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21583"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21583"
---

In the Depression era *Our Gang* comedies, a recurring gag was for the
kids to get adult sized costumes and put on a show. The joke was the
sight-gag of the kids wearing the oversize clothes, but trying hard to
play the roles in their show. It was made in a time when there was a
clear line between childhood and adulthood, so the audience understood
that it was not just using kids for cheap gags. It was also a way to
make sport of current issues without being too obvious.

The man behind the *Our Gang* series was credited with using children in
a natural way, so they came across as real kids, not adult actors
playing children. The authenticity of the roles, a group of poor
children in the depression, often pretending to be adults or what they
imagined it was like to be adults, allowed the adult audience to laugh
at themselves and the foolishness of adult pretensions. The best comedy
is that which allows the audience to approvingly laugh at themselves.

It makes for an interesting contrast to the modern day. The most popular
movies in this age feature adults dressing up as children’s comic book
heroes. They engage in the sorts of fantasy stories featured in comic
books. These movies are not made for children, but for adults. The
median age of the American comic book consumer is 34. The point of the
movies is for the adults to escape anything resembling adulthood and
engage in the sorts of flights of fancy normally associated with
children.

Movies have always been escapism. In the Depression, people went to the
theater to get some relief from the daily grind of hard times. During
the war they went to be reassured that they were on the winning side. In
the Cold War, movies often reminded people that they were on the side of
angels in the great struggle with communism. Alternatively, they were a
cautionary tale about the foolishness of war in a nuclear world. Movies
reflect and shape the shared public consciousness.

That’s what makes those old *Our Gang* skits about kids in adult clothes
relevant in the age of comic book movies. We live in an age in which
fools and knaves dress up as serious people and perform serious roles.
The typical politician is a dangerously stupid simpleton, but he can
play his role well, so he gets the part. He is no different from the
kids dressed up in adult clothes. The difference is you could laugh at
the kids, but the modern version is nothing but horror.

Just look at the absurdity of the Covid panic. All over we see adult
children cast in the role of political leader, playing a real-life
action fantasy game where they are heroically fighting the Covid
monster. Mario’s Cuomo’s oldest, currently staring as Governor,
commissioned [a
book](https://www.amazon.com/American-Crisis-Leadership-COVID-19-Pandemic/dp/0593239261)
about himself fighting the Covid. It’s a wonder he did not have it
titled *My Struggle*. Like so many other reckless idiots holding high
office in this country, he lives in a fantasy land where he is always
the hero.

Not to put too fine a point on this, but much of the outrage over Trump
is that he is an authentic human being, not some airhead hired for the
role. The long arc of our presidential candidates has reached the point
where the Inner Party candidate is a man who could very well be dead
right now. He stays locked in a basement. We are a click away from the
next candidate being a concept or maybe a holographic image created by
the special effects people in Hollywood.

That’s probably why the super hero genre has become so popular. In an
age of mediocre men dressed up to play important roles, it is natural
for the common fantasy to revolve around some great leader emerging to
transcend the dreary blandness of the age and carry us forward into a
heroic age. The foil for these heroes is always a group of people who
are too small minded to appreciate whatever it is the hero is bringing
to society with his super-natural or super-human skills.

It’s also not surprising that these emergent heroes are psychologically
flawed in some way that will prevent them from fully realizing their
power. The audience is supposed to see the foolishness of anyone trying
to transcend this age. In the end, there is no escaping the dreary
blandness of the egalitarian age. The subtext to these films is that
only mentally flawed people think anyone should seek something more than
material prosperity and temporary happiness. It is nihilism for a
nihilistic age.

Another juxtaposition worth considering is that in the dawn of
Hollywood, movies were a break from the labors of life. The audience was
serious people engaged in the serious struggle of life. Today’s audience
is composed of grown up children escaping the boring drudgery of life to
pretend for a little while to be serious adults. They don’t desire a
great leader to carry them to something better. They just think it would
be cool to fly around in magic underwear for a while. Small men. Small
dreams.

Joseph de Maistre said, “Every country has the government it deserves.”
It is a popular quote with modern critics of liberal democracy, but they
miss the larger point. The government is the reflection of the society’s
elite, which in turn is a reflection of the people and culture that
produced that elite. It is no wonder that modern leaders are grown up
toddlers dressed up in adult clothes. They are the elite we deserve,
because we are no longer able to demand more from ourselves.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Fb5hKSSo2L5F1MlxemL7tQ==cb7q4c7h4K1ozL/h6/5ag4eFxyGOKhcl75qTbK93f/+dhVO9xcij+zoccyYNQTlpXnu"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="6KAA6bXCKJyJkuOrP6Yi9Q==cb7FBAWUbALvUYsbKYHzAjP80Zn9AOGhtH5jtjmgz3M1Qw6kpMfnUlWeDYT7dTpXqPo"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
