---
title: "Welcome To America"
date: "2020-05-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20375"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20375"
---

Every once in a while, one of the major polling outfits will ask
Americans about their views on freedom and liberty. Most Americans think
they live in the freest country on earth and they are pretty happy about
it. By freedom, people assume it means being able to go about your
business as you see fit, holding whatever opinions you like and saying
what you like, within the bounds of decency and common courtesy. Most of
all, it means the government is not going to harass or torment you.

There was a time when that was true. If you are over the age of forty,
you remember when people were free from coercion, regarding civil
rights. People in this country were free to live their lives and speak
their minds. For people of a certain age, it feels like it was not that
long ago when even the most intolerant people would say “I may not agree
with your opinions, but I’d fight to the death for your right to say
them.” No one says that anymore, as no one believes, especially no one
with power.

In current year America, we ban books. The government does not ban
books, but private companies refuse to sell them, so the effect is the
same. Of course, almost all books are sold by one company now, a company
that [laughs at the
laws](https://www.cnbc.com/2020/05/01/house-judiciary-committee-asks-amazon-ceo-jeff-bezos-to-testify-over-allegedly-misleading-congress.html)
and the political institutions that write those laws. If the people at
Amazon decide your book is not to their liking, they will stop selling
it. Greg Johnson has been reduced to mailing people copies of his books
because Amazon disapproves of him.

Now, the so-called conservatives will claim that major corporations like
Amazon just avoid controversy. It’s not about politics but simply trying
to avoid getting tangled up in controversial topics. Yet, Amazon is
happy to sell books on [bizarre sexual
predilections](https://www.amazon.com/s?k=fisting&i=stripbooks&ref=nb_sb_noss_2)
and the promotion of
[self-harm](https://www.amazon.com/s?k=transgender&i=stripbooks&ref=nb_sb_noss_2).
That sort of material is not a problem, because it is not a problem with
the ruling class. Greg Johnson’s politics are a problem for the people
in charge, so he is banned from selling books on-line.

Of course, people with unapproved opinions could sell their own books
and magazines on-line, but the banks and payment processors refuse to do
business with them. It’s not just a few banks and payment processors
that refused to do business with people holding unapproved opinions.
It’s all of them. Sites like Counter-Currents, VDare and American
Renaissance have searched far and wide for a payment processor, but no
one will take their business. The banks behind the processors have
decreed it.

It is not just a few isolated troublemakers getting the business from
corporations. Normal people curious about opinions outside the protected
zone have real fear of being harassed, just for the crime of associating
with these people. The media, the people who used to proudly say they
speak truth to power, are always on the lookout for someone they can
destroy, for the crime of associating with people deemed unacceptable.
Major media outlets now see themselves as the keeper of orthodoxy.

In fairness, most Americans would dismiss that as the sort of
first-world troubles that don’t affect most people. Maybe that’s true,
but America is now a country that holds political prisoners. That is,
there are people in jail primarily for the crime of holding unapproved
opinions. It’s not just political types who lost the game of insider
game playing in Washington. Normal everyday Americans are getting jail
time for the crime of holding opinions that the ruling class finds
unacceptable.

[Maxwell Hare and John
Kinsman](https://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/proud-boys-members-sentenced-years-nyc-melee-66451375)
were given four years in a New York penitentiary for the crime of being
associated with Gavin McInnes. They were jumped by left-wing street
thugs and won the fight. They were arrested, but there was never any
effort to find the men who attacked them. There was no effort to find
witnesses either. Instead, the police and court relied on material
provided to them by Antifa. When he sentenced them, the judge made clear
he was doing it for their politics.

That is not an isolated example. Over the last decade this sort of thing
has become so common that it is just an accepted part of daily reality.
If you belong to a group holding unapproved ideas, you have to go to
great lengths to meet in secret in order to avoid being attacked by
state sanctioned mobs. If that happens, there is a good chance the
police will charge you rather than the mob. The thing political
dissidents in current year America fear is that the government will
become aware of them.

There used to be a time when Americans associated this sort of thing
with totalitarian states or South American dictatorships. The communists
would never allow people to hold unapproved opinions. They smashed up
illegal printing presses and banished dissident writers. Third world
dictators sanctioned mobs to go around harassing people they saw as a
problem. The communists are all gone and there are no more South
American strong men. America is no longer a free country either.

This reality should be evident to everyone now. Government has spent the
better part of the last two months closing shops and forcing people to
stay indoors. They are creating bizarre and ridiculous rules for when
people must go outside. Cops are pushing people around, harassing
mothers at parks and otherwise carrying on like highly feminized goon
squads. It’s hard to claim you live in a free country when you need
permission from the government go outside to take a walk.

The remarkable thing about this is none of the things described above
would have seemed plausible a generation ago. Conservatives liked to
claim Bill Clinton was an autocrat, but no one seriously imagined he
would so something like this. Left-wingers really thought Bush was
Hitler, but even they did not think this was possible. In what feels
like the blink of an eye, things we used to think were outside the realm
of possibility are now normal. We have slipped into the darkness.

If you are of a certain age, the new normal is particularly tough to
fathom. You spent much of your early life being told that the long
struggle against communism was all about preventing exactly this. The
whole point of America, its reason to exist, was to prevent exactly this
from happening. Maybe it was always a big lie. Maybe it is the result of
forces too complex for anyone to fathom. It really does not matter. The
result is what matters. America is no longer a free country.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
