---
title: "Market Report Week Three"
date: "2020-04-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20188"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20188"
---

The market was very crowded today, suggesting that either the effects of
the first round of hoarding have worn off or people fear the worst is
yet to come. In the initial round of hoarding, people probably loaded up
for two or three weeks. Therefore stocks could be running low now.
Perhaps there is a second wave of hoarding that follows the first for
some people. Alternatively, the news could be re-frightening people with
prophesies about the real doom and gloom really coming this time.

The number of masks were much higher than last week. It was not just
blacks and Asians wearing them. About a third of the people had
something on their face, like a bandanna, medical grade mask or the
stuff workmen use. Probably forty percent of this group was kitted out
like they were going to rob the payroll stage coach traveling down from
Albany. For some reason they did not look as silly as the people with
the dust masks on their faces, but they did look foolish.

Masks probably have some impact on slowing the spread of an infection,
but nowhere near what the alarmist claim. Life is a not a sterile
environment and people are not wearing those masks 24-hours per day.
What they are doing with those masks is reducing the number of times
they touch a foreign object, like the carts at the market, and then
touching their faces. Unless they are sanitizing every surface and then
washing their hands vigorously, they are not avoiding the bug.

The market itself was completely stocked, except for cleaning supplies,
which probably says we have moved from the fear of not having snacks
phase to the people have been cooped up in their homes too long phase.
The homes of America have probably never been so clean. At some point
that will get tiresome and the demand for household cleaners will return
to normal. People respond to what they see. If the promised bodies in
the streets do not show up soon, the great cleaning frenzy quickly ends.

The lines at checkout were very long, about 40-minutes. The procedure
was the same as last week, but the higher volume and the lower number of
checkout people made for a long wait. The store has started refusing the
grimy canvas sacks the anointed have been using to display their love of
Gaia. It turns out that the nation’s octogenarians are more important
than climate change. It also means these dingbat moralizers will have to
find a new way to display their virtue. Perhaps they should wear masks.

In front of me in the checkout line was a women probably in her
mid-30’s. In front of her was a pudgy guy in his mid-40’s. Let’s call
her “Desert” and he can be “Thirsty” in this little drama. Thirsty kept
trying to strike up a conversation with Desert. She was having none of
it, doing the thing women do in clubs to blow off some loser. She kept
responding with short answers that would not naturally elicit a
response. Poor old Thirsty kept trying, which is why he is so thirsty.

Eventually, Desert turned around to me and started making small talk.
Maybe under different circumstance I would have been flattered, but I
hate standing in lines and I had just watched her shoot down poor
Thirsty. I decided to display my power level by doing to her what she
had just done to the poor loser in front of her. Of course, this only
intensified her interest in me. I’ve never been much for game, but it
was a nice reminder that the fundamentals of human nature never change,
not even in a panic.

Watching a fashionable sort try to hide her grimy canvas sacks, now that
they are no longer a positive moral signifier, I thought about the
alarmists. The HBD crowd has gone totally mad over this virus. Any
deviation from their extreme position on this is now treated as heresy.
There’s a UFO cult quality to what’s going on with those people, as if
the coronavirus is a savior, rather than a fact of nature. The slightest
bit of skepticism is treated as if the person is denying there is such a
thing as a virus

One reason for this is a lack of confidence. Fanatics tend to attack the
less fanatical because the mere presence of them calls into question
their extreme position on whatever is the main belief. On the one hand,
there is status that comes from staking out the most pure position. On
the other hand, those who are unwilling to following along call into
question that extreme position. They must, therefore, be anathematized
and discredited to maintain the extreme position.

There is a good chance we will get to see a large scale reenactment of
what was described in [When Prophecy
Fails](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_Prophecy_Fails). We are
probably at the 12:05 mark of that process, maybe the 12:10 mark. We
were supposed to have hundreds of thousands in the hospital at this
point and it is twenty thousand. With the fever abating in Europe and
the economy in ruins, the political class will be lifting the siege in
the next couple of weeks. That’s when the clock strikes 4:00 AM for the
great virus scare.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
