---
title: "A Very Jewish Movie"
date: "2020-05-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20416"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20416"
---

The Adam Sandler movie *Uncut Gems* is maybe the most explicitly Jewish
movie since the 2002 movie *The Pianist*. That is a difficult to define
category, as there are loads of small independent films never intended
for a wide audience. Movies like Uncut Gems and The Pianist are
commercial films intended for a general audience, but also intended to
reveal things about Jewish life to that general audience. These movies
offer a window into the collective psyche of diaspora Jews.

That is the main layer with Uncut gems. The film tells the story of
Howard Ratner, who runs a sleazy jewelry store in New York City. Howard
is a degenerate gambler, always dreaming of the big score, as he is
always in debt to loan sharks and bookies, due to his gambling. That
means he is constantly hustling to come up with cash through his jewelry
hustle and other means. Superficially, the movie is about his quest to
get and sell an uncut rock full of Ethiopian gems.

The story takes us through Howard’s life and by extension through the
inner life of New York City Jews. Howard is a sleazy pervert, the
anti-Semite’s caricature of the typical Jewish man. His father in-law,
in contrast, is a stable, hardworking guy, who has enjoyed a successful
life. His wife is the typical Long island Jewish housewife, which means
Howard has a gentile mistress. That is permanent dynamic that seems to
define the sex roles among Jews, just as it does Italians.

We follow Howard as he interacts with the world in his bid to get the
Ethiopian gemstone sold at auction for what he thinks will be his big
score. Meanwhile he tries to hustle basketball star Kevin Garnett,
places bets on basketball games, hassles with his flaky mistress and
gets beat up by his loan shark, who happens to be his brother-in-law by
marriage. Eventually, all of his schemes collapse and his entire life
rides on a complicated bet on a basketball game in order to clear his
debts.

Interestingly, the loan shark is Armenian, having married into the
family. Armenians are known for being as aggressively ethnocentric as
Jews, so having an Armenian loan shark, especially one that married into
the family, as the main antagonist of Howard’s life offers a glimpse
into the Jewish worldview. In a world of ethnic rivalry, the life of the
individual will be shaped by those ethnic rivalries. In other words, for
members of the Tribe, life is a lifelong struggle between ethnic groups.

Another interesting aspect about the non-Jews in the film is how Howard
relates to the blacks in his life. On the one hand, he treats them like
furniture. They have no connection to him, other than as opportunities
for profit. He tries to hustle the basketball star Kevin Garnett. His
primary clientele at his jewelry store is inner city blacks, who wish to
look like extras from a hip-hop video. It’s clear throughout the film
that the blacks in his life have no real meaning to him as individuals.

Despite this, he has an all too familiar deep affection for black
culture that even the blacks notice. In one scene, Keven Garnett ask him
why Jews have such a love for basketball, which is one of those jokes
that only Jews and people who notice things would appreciate. He also
has a thing for hip-hop and its culture. He has a deep fear that his
mistress will go off with some local rapper, which becomes the source of
a rift between the two of them. He fears being cuckolded.

Another aspect of Jewish life on display in the movie is the cultural
and ethnic pressure on Jewish men to succeed. Howard is a bum, but what
prevents him from embracing that aspect of his life is the need to be
seen as successful within his family and within Jewish society. He is a
man torn between his desire to live his life as he would prefer to live
it and the ethnic duties that largely define who he is as a man. One
theme in the film is his possible divorce from his wife after Passover.

This is something that Jewish novelists like Phillip Roth have tackled.
On the one hand, Jewish males are driven to succeed. On the other hand,
what defines Jews is their permanent outsider status. Therefore,
achieving success and status in the larger society in which they live is
not an option, as that’s assimilation. That means the dilemma for the
ambitious Jewish man is finding the balance between success in the
greater culture, while remaining outside of it.

Of course, in this age, maintaining the outsider identity is impossible
for a people who are now the ultimate insiders. It’s why Jews are
becoming increasingly schizophrenic in modern America. One face is that
of Michelle Goldberg, the shrill anti-white columnist at the New York
Times. Another is the patronizing Ben Shapiro, who steadily re-writes
the origin story of the West to begin with his family tree. Another is
the Jew stripped of all but his superficial identity as a Jew, consumed
by modernity.

That is what ultimately makes Howard a sympathetic character. Like the
Jewish people, he is not built for modernity and is ultimately destroyed
by it. This is proving to be true for Jews in modern America, despite
the fact they played a key role in developing the modern American
culture. Howard meets his demise at the point of his greatest triumph,
when everything he sought is within reach. Fittingly, his demise comes
at the hands of the other ethnocentric tribe in the film.

That is the ultimate lesson of the film. Just as Howard is not built to
survive in the modern world, the Jewish people are not built for it
either. [This is a
topic](https://forward.com/opinion/444315/americas-jewish-institutions-were-failing-coronavirus-hastened-their/)
within Jewish intellectual circles. A highly ethnocentric people evolved
to compete as numerical underdogs need the outsider status to maintain
group cohesion. Just as Howard needs some hard limitations on his
behavior, Jews need that outsider status to maintain their sense of
identity and ultimately their existence.

As far a film goes, and ultimately movies are about entertainment,
*Uncut Gems* is an ugly, difficult to watch story at times. Because
everyone in the film is described by their failings, you cannot root for
any of them. Unless you’re black or Jewish, you cannot identity with
them. At the same time, it is like getting a glimpse into a culture that
is systematically hidden from view, despite being in plain sight. Unless
you are an anti-Semite, it is an interesting cultural exploration.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
