---
title: "The Purpose Driven Life"
date: "2020-12-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22213"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22213"
---

An underappreciated aspect of human society is that humans in large
communities need a set of common beliefs. Large society in this context
means anything larger than the Dunbar number. Once you get to that
number, law codes and a way to enforce them are a necessity. One tool to
do this is a common set of beliefs held by most of the members. This
provides a mechanism for those rules to become a habit of mind, a shared
reality we would think of as culture.

A simple example of this is a taboo against an activity. Let’s say a
poisonous berry grows in a part of the forest. The people may develop a
taboo about eating anything or even entering that part of the forest.
Perhaps they evolve a legend about one of their gods cursing the place
or prohibiting people from entering it. Once enough people believe this,
it becomes part of the law code of society and it is enforced by
collective action against those who break the taboo about entering that
area.

It is a crude example, but we have many such examples in the modern day
that are not much different from that crude example. For example,
Americans remain convinced that eating fat will anger the health gods.
There is no science behind the Standard American Diet, but most
Americans accept it as true. They don’t think about it. It is just part
of the shared beliefs they grew up with and live within, so they accept
it as true. We accept all sorts of behavior and environmental nonsense
on faith.

Now, it should be noted that the shared beliefs do not have to be
accepted by everyone in a society for them to work. Going back to our
sacred bit of the forest example, it is not necessary that everyone
accept the myth. It just has to be a critical mass that accept it and is
willing to act on it. Unless there is an equally compelling reason to
resist the myth and the reason is held by a sufficient number of people,
a minority belief will become the majority belief in practice, if not
spirit.

It is not too hard to find examples of this form of minoritarianism.
American history is riddled with causes that were championed by a
minority. The proliferating set of taboos related to the Covid beliefs
held by the ruling class are a great example. A tiny number of people,
relative to the population, deeply believes in these Covid taboos, so
they have launched a crusade against Covid. America looks like a weird
Muslim country now, because lots of people joined this new belief.

That is another aspect of shared belief. It appears that another
prerequisite for large human society is a sense of shared purpose. The
answer to why we are here and what is the purpose of our lives is
answered within that shared set of beliefs. “My life has meaning because
I am part of this great cause of my people” is a highly efficient way of
enforcing group behavior. The best rules are those eagerly enforced by a
set of true believers whose purpose in life is to enforce compliance.

Move backward through popular politics in America and you see one holy
crusade after another driving the political debate. Today it is driven
by Covidians. Before that it was driven by white liberals thinking Obama
was Jesus. Before that it was driven by the war on terrorism. When the
Baby Boomers had kids in school the crusade was to fix the schools so
everyone could be educated. Go back further and we had a war on drugs
and, of course, the great crusade against the evils of communism.

American history has been one crusade after another. The great battle
between good whites and bad whites exists because it fills that need for
a purpose. In the albescence of some external foe, the good whites keep
their crusading skills sharp by going to war with the bad whites over
some moral cause. This not only gives purpose to their lives, but it
also reinforces those shared beliefs about who they are and why they
exist. The reaction from the bad whites serves much the same purpose.

If you observe the Covidians for a bit, you see this need for purpose.
The HBD community, for example, rushed to be the early adopters of the
new faith, sensing it was a way back into the community of the
respectable. It was not a conscious decision on their part. They did not
vote on their secret e-mail list to become Covidians. It was the result
of a shared desire to be rehabilitated and restored to polite society,
along with the general sense that their purpose in life is to inform the
rulers on the human sciences.

The same can be said for the women volunteering to be the mask police in
every community in America. The natural role of women has been so
reduced in status that this artificial role of Covidian den mother has
become highly appealing. Mothers have been far less emotional about
things like mask wearing and social distancing than the army of
unattached, childless females. The reason is they have kids to scratch
that maternal itch, so being a Covidian den mother has little appeal.

The fact is, human societies need shared beliefs. One aspect of that
shared belief is a shared purpose. Most people, certainly not all, need
that space labeled “purpose” to be filled by society. This is especially
true of childless females. It is also true for males with no male role
to play. Stripped of natural sex roles, this need for purpose is filled
with causes that give purpose to life. The people wearing masks in their
cars are not sheep following orders. They are believers looking for a
god.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="S3UtS4SV2ZTJaEYNAoji3g==cb7FG4xaAt42ZJE/ZwHCo2DN8s8H0CstBgbUcUPH8pEbZGgBF7ADjLIETGje91PFJKT"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="UbKnpBAbwpIaZaYnOo1JLA==cb7UvNmkGjp2w6qkMv15SihjNgy8r6mxOqi4mFjnWjSq9Q9IaFgvvluxYdHJHOwGgOG"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
