---
title: "The Magic Box"
date: "2020-03-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Pandemic
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20105"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20105"
---

Anyone who works in the right answer fields, like engineering and
computer science, has run across the magic box gag. This is where
someone draws up a process, describing the various inputs and
sub-processes. Somewhere toward the end of the diagram is a box into
which all of this stuff flows. What comes out of the box is the desired
result of the entire process. That box at the end, where all the good
stuff happens, is labeled something like “magical happens here.”

It is a stale gag, but a persistent one as it is a very good way to
simplify a project for the people who put the magic in the box. The
people who will get the magic really don’t need to know what happens
inside the box. That’s not their concern. That’s the job of the
technical people to solve. In fact, the whole point of the exercise is
to make sure everyone shares the same understanding of all the other
stuff. The users of the process must trust that the technical people put
the right magic in the box.

It does not always go that way through. Even the simplest processes have
peculiarities that are not appreciated until you start monkeying around
with them. The combination of inputs may create conflicts that require
immensely complicated solutions inside the box in order to get the
desired result. It’s why after the meeting ends, the technical people
erase the board and spend a lot of time figuring out exactly what form
of magic will have to go into that box. Magic is not as easy at looks.

This concept is one to keep in mind when evaluating the responses to the
virus panic and soon the economic consequences of it. Loads of people on
both sides of the great divide think something momentous has happened.
They see the flood of changes that have been imposed and rightly assume
that it will have a profound long term effect on the country and the
West in general. They are probably right, but they disagree as to what
will come out of the magic box that is this panic.

The most obvious starting place is with the people demanding we take
this extreme measure to stop the virus.  As has been discussed at length
here now, they fail to consider the consequences. Instead, their
response is something like, “The economy is not important. That will fix
itself.” In other words, something magical will happen and things will
get back to normal. The magic box will not only fix all the damage done
to civil life, it will restore everything back to where it was before
the panic.

It’s possible that things bounce back to where they were to start the
year. No one knows, because this has never been done. Maybe in a year
this whole episode will be forgotten, like the Kavanaugh hearings or the
Russia hoax. On the other hand, we could be facing a long depression.
The blows to the system could be so profound they cannot magically heal
themselves. Instead, things remain broken. In other words, maybe the
magic in that box is bad magic, the very worst kind of magic.

That brings up another camp that is now deeply invested in the magic
box. There are a lot of people on this side of the great divide that are
cheering the lock down. They think it will forever discredit the things
they don’t like. The consequences of globalism and the neoliberal order
will flow into the hive brain of the public and what comes out the other
side is a rejection of all of it. Magically, everyone will come to the
conclusions many people on this side held before the panic and
subsequent results.

It’s possible that some of those things <a
href="https://www.counter-currents.com/2020/03/how-coronavirus-will-change-the-world/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Greg Johnson lists</a> will
come true. It’s also possible that none of them will happen.  People are
remarkably resilient to reality, as we see with the panic. If your first
response to the prospects of a pandemic are to fill your basement with
toilet paper, you are unlikely to draw the best lessons from this panic
and its results. The ruling class, the people who triggered this panic,
are also unlikely to abandon all the things that allow them to be in
power.

The point here is not to take issue with Greg or his post. Greg’s
lessons are correct, but they were correct before the panic. He is
assuming this sudden crisis will be the magic box that transforms
everything. The last half century of history is flowing into this panic
and the resulting turmoil. What will come out the other side is a great
awakening, as the scales fall from the eyes of everyone wondering how
they will pay their rent and feed their kids. The coronavirus panic is
the magic box.

Similarly, there is a subset of this thinking that exists in fringe
socialist circles, like the remnants of the old alt-right and the Bernie
Sanders camp. They cheer the coming collapse, because they think the
prophesies will finally come true. America will become Weimar Germany.
One version of the game has Richard Spencer delivering his first speech
to the new Ethno-Reichstag. The other side thinks they will finally be
free to punch those Nazis that secretly control the world.

It is an interesting key value pair. Both camps think their political
ideology is timeless and forever relevant. Both sides think history
<a href="https://twitter.com/ramzpaul/status/1242095721815384069"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">must repeat</a> in the exact
same way it happened 90 years ago in Europe. It’s like coordinates on a
map. Because the coordinates never change, their place on the great map
of human history never changes either. It’s a form of mysticism. In this
case, they assume an economic collapse must magically result in
conditions most favorable to them.

Again, that magic box may not contain what they imagine. The most likely
result is the <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/technology/coronavirus-facebook-amazon-youtube.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">increased power</a> of the
tech oligarchs. They are now helping government track people, all in the
name of safety, of course. A world in which <a
href="https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/california-police-to-use-chinese-made-patrol-drones-with-night-vision-cameras-during-coronavirus-lockdown"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">drones are used to police
citizens</a> identified through their <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/mar/19/plan-phone-location-data-assist-uk-coronavirus-effort"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">mobile phone</a> as having
stood next to the wrong person is not favorable to the revolution. You
see, the people in charge have been planning for the <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/books/review/hitlers-first-hundred-days-peter-fritzsche.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">arrival of you-know-who</a>
for a very long time as well.

In fairness, maybe the critics of the response to this virus are
engaging in magic box thinking as well. To assume lots of bad things
come out of the other end of the box is just as presumptuous as assuming
only good things will emerge. Maybe the great reorder that will occur
after this will be better for the Nazis and Bolsheviks camped out in the
pumpkin patch. Maybe people will wake up to the reality of neoliberal
order and demand changes. Maybe things get back to normal in a hurry.

The one true thing in all of this is no one knows what is inside the box
that events appear to be leading us. The panic itself is unprecedented
in the modern age, so we are left to guess about what follows. What’s
happening with the global financial system is less novel, but the scale
is unprecedented. No one can know if the economy will spin back up, as
no one has tried to turn it off and then back on. We are in the world of
unknown unknowns, the part of the diagram labeled “Magic.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
