---
title: "Doctor Stupid"
date: "2020-12-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22260"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22260"
---

There is an old line about how some things are so stupid that only
educated people are willing to believe them. Sometimes it is phrased as
the smartest are the ones who believe the dumbest things. It is one of
those aphorisms that is often used to dismiss arguments or ideas that
are unpleasant. Most clichés and sayings are conversation enders, not
conversation starters. On the other hand, there is a kernel of truth
here and you see it in <a
href="https://mobile.twitter.com/preshitorian/status/1338900616526049286"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this gem</a> from a Dr. Rachel Pope.

As we know from the great Doctor Jill Biden, there are a lot of very
stupid people walking around with the label “doctor” in their profile.
Another good rule is that when confronted by someone insisting you call
her doctor or she puts that title in her social media profile, you are
most likely dealing with a stupid person. It is not always the case, as
there are smart jerks in the world too, but people who wave around their
titles like this tend to be narrowminded and remarkably insecure.

In this case, it appears to be warranted. The claim that there is no
genetic basis for skin color is laughably ridiculous. There is a genetic
basis for all observable human characteristics like skin color and eye
color. That is why we have no cases of two Irish parents giving birth to
a Chinese baby. Children look like the people who made them, because
they inherit the genes of the people who made them. Things like skin
color, eye color, facial features and so on are all genetic.

This is not complicated stuff. Five minutes on a search engine gets you
hundreds of studies explaining what is basic high school biology. If Dr.
Rachel Pope is so haunted by multicultural taboos that she cannot bear
to think of race differences, she could find studies like
<a href="https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2017/10/171012143324.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this one</a> that examine the genetic
basis of African skin color. You see, all of the gene combinations for
skin color were present in humans from the start, so she could claim
that skin color is a genetic response to environment.

If that first tweet was not embarrassing enough, she follows on with a
truly deranged claim that there are no indigenous people in Britain. By
her definition, there are no indigenous people anywhere. Humans did not
spring from the soil by magic and they did not stay in one range. The
story of humans starts with populating every nook and cranny of the
planet. When people with an IQ about room temperature say “indigenous
people” they mean those who settle a place first.

Of course, where Dr. Rachel Pope and her coreligionists in the denialist
cult reveal the depth of their stupidity is when they insist race is
skin color. The only people who insist this are the people in the
science deniers cult. People familiar enough with the human sciences to
accept the great diversity of man know that race is a general shorthand
for a large basket of measurable human traits. These baskets of traits
largely conform to the big geological divides on our home planet.

That last bit may sound awkward, but it is a good way of understanding
how it is we have so much diversity in the human animal. If one hundred
thousand years ago a group of aliens scooped up a few thousand humans
and transported them to another planet, those humans would have adapted
to their new world. They would no doubt have evolved unique
characteristics because their world required it. No one would pretend
that they are not different from earthlings.

It turns out that humans are the product of mating decisions made by
their ancestors going back a very long time. Evolution worked on humans
just as it does on everything else on the planet. When people migrated
to a new environment, they quickly began to adapt to that new
environment. The reason Africans have a genetic defense to malaria, but
Scandinavians do not, is malaria is not present in the north. Thousands
of generations of adaptation are why we have so much human diversity.

What makes this strain of stupidity carried by Dr. Rachel jaw-dropping
is the people afflicted with it never shut up about diversity. From the
comfort of their whites-only enclaves, they harangue the rest of us
about diversity. The term “white privilege” has become a passphrase for
these people. Yet, if race is not real, then white is not a logical
construct, as it assumes race is real. Similarly, diversity cannot exist
if there is no genetic basis for the human differences, we call race and
ethnicity.

This brings us back to the beginning. The denialist is always someone
who is educated, but also strangely stupid about the obvious. They tend
to have inflated credentials in fields that are not particularly taxing.
Archeology is a little better than education or psychology, but it is
not a STEM field. There is a sense that their credentialism is a defense
mechanism rather than a trophy case. That is also why they fall for
every nutty fad popular with the modern intelligentsia.

Biological denialism, the refusal to accept the observable and
measurable differences in humans, may be the ultimate expression of the
aphorism at the start of this post. It is an idea so stupid that only
pseudo-intellectual poseurs believe it. It signals to the rest that the
person believing it is willing to accept on faith whatever nonsense is
running through that particular subculture at the moment. It is an act
of submission, showing that the person will never question the tenets of
the subculture.

That is an important aspect of the modern intelligentsia. Membership is
not just about holding the right beliefs. Those are important, but they
change quickly, so what is most important is the willingness to accept
the most absurd beliefs. The man who starts wearing a dress, claiming he
believes he is a woman must be met by his fellows with absolute
acceptance. That is the point of the pronoun stuff. When you address the
guy in the sundress as “them” you are a true believer.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="1/ldY/i+BmGCu2mBBG3yYg==cb7pLYHzZFwISBTQG0eGArcLKudhWMQVnpgZBhHxIaW+KALWgMIDAsO3QwJPwL85VGa"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="yg2QwClVvt1OJrOZrqus8A==cb74EwcF0mh/OUO5WeRt7aXWORexgh7+HZeY69yp3aPyMz11vZMLybQoG+56LSDAifS"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
