---
title: "The Working Class Joe Story"
date: "2020-10-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-10-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21528"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21528"
---

According to Aristotle, the elements of good story telling, in order of
importance, are plot, character, theme, dialogue, melody, decor and
spectacle. You can be a great story teller, really ham it up for your
listeners, but if the story makes no sense and the people are
incomprehensible, the story will fall flat. This is also true of
campaigns. The candidate has to make sense to people and his story arc
has to give the sense that his victory is the culmination of the events
leading to the election.

We saw this in 2016 where we were given two competing stories. Clinton
was supposed to be a strong woman, the modern heroine. In modern
storytelling, these gals always beat the evil white man without much
effort. She was the embodiment of the feminist ideal and her election
was supposed to be the culmination of the story that began with the
suffragettes. That plot made no sense, given her actual story, but that
did not matter to the media, dramatically selling her campaign.

The trouble was, her show was out at the same time as a low-budget indie
production that was familiar to everyone. Trump was the picaresque
every-man, motivated by a sense of duty to transcend his own limitations
and do the right thing. He was the voice of the audience, criticizing
the other characters and the system they inhabited, not for personal
gain, but for the benefit of the audience. He was David and Clinton was
Goliath and everyone expects David to win.

In 2020, it appears the official story tellers may have another problem
on their hands with the Biden campaign. The story they are selling this
time is the public is tired of the tyrant Trump and ready to lift-up
world-weary old white man, and his super-smart diverse sidekick, and
carry them to the White House. You see, world-weary old white man had a
nice run, but now it is time for him to go. His last act will be to
vanquish mean old white man and then hand the baton over to diverse
sidekick.

It’s a familiar story, one that is the center of so many bad movies it
is amazing that they keep trying to sell it. In this case, world-weary
old white man is a vegetable that has been in hiding for most of the
year, because he has shark eyes and says wacky things suggesting he is
not all there. Super-smart diverse sidekick is pretty dumb and reminds
everyone of getting their license renewed. It’s a bad story that no one
wants to think about and the characters don’t work for the audience.

Compounding it is the world-weary old white man has a son that likes to
smoke crack and film himself banging hookers. Fair or foul, people judge
people by their children and Hunter Biden is a vulgar degenerate. He
lies, cheats, steals and does not seem to have anything resembling a
conscience. Worse yet, he seems to be an uncommonly stupid person,
getting jammed up over stupid things like leaving his laptop with a
repair shop, so the contents can be sold to the tabloids.

If the contents were just an unusual amount of cat pictures, people
could possibly generate some sympathy for his parents. They gave it
their best shot, but the boy was never right in the head. Instead, it’s
videos of him smoking crack with hookers and having them perform
unnatural acts upon him. Then there are the e-mails from foreign
potentates suggesting he was the facilitator in a bribery scheme
involving his father, who was vice president at the time, emphasis on
the vice.

That’s a pretty big hole in the plot, so the script writers have
responded with plot devices so stupid it suggests they may have learning
disabilities. The most ridiculous might be the claim that the shop owner
who recovered the laptop in question is really just a cleverly disguised
<a
href="https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2020/10/biden-emails-burisma-rudy-giulliani-russian-hackers-ukraine-new-york-post.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Russian agent</a>. Nothing
adds credibility to the story like reminding people that the people
telling this story are crazy. Then you have the effort to <a
href="https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/scottlucas/facebook-limits-hunter-biden-nypost?scrolla=5eb6d68b7fedc32c19ef33b4"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">suppress the story</a>, which
doesn’t seem fishy at all.

We’ve come a long way since *The Boy From Hope, The Bill Clinton Story*.
Sure, the hero in that tale was a bit of a degenerate, but his vices
were understandable, and given his marriage situation, forgivable. His
sidekick was the perfect foil, a stiff block of wood who obsessed over
the rules. It was a familiar and natural pairing that tapped into
familiar American themes. It was not a perfect story, but it was good
enough to carry people along and let them bond with the protagonist.

*The Working Class Joe Story* is everything that is wrong with modern
America, in that it is a constant reminder that the people in charge are
not very good at this. The actor playing the main role got the part
because the other options were too demanding, so he got the role by
default. The character playing the diverse sidekick got the role because
the casting director took a bribe. This story is a daily reminder that
our ruling class is a cynical blend of incompetence and corruption.

A sad truth of modern story telling is that with a big enough budget,
even the worst film can attract an audience. Ghostbusters 2016 was hot
garbage, but it made close to $300 million worldwide. The Hillary
Clinton Story, which came out the same year, also did a big box office.
In both cases, it was not enough to break even, bit it shows you just
how easily the audience can be manipulated. Maybe this time the boys
from marketing can make *The Working Class Joe Story* a hit for the
ages*.*

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="xjjU1ErSoNaaSthUvOrA5A==cb72QGO8DoNHowylVwcdxXCEQwJr2C0zF96mYR63RQKozYjWnfOUb0ycD0es2BDFpei"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Di5YSbB9hYPFTq+sizTbwg==cb7AjHr/iKWedctiCwC1a17FFl5MPNSz4b6lZZBEli+MryxB4DqbjIX8RyU5KCqxRMj"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
