---
title: "Optics Matter"
date: "2020-08-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-08-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21149"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21149"
---

One of the timeless lessons of this year has been that the future is
always going to be full of surprises. To start the year, no one could
have predicted the Covid panic and the rise of local tyrants using the
panic to push people around. A month ago, no one would have predicted
the recent events in Kenosha. It just seemed like these ruling class
riots would continue in the same manner until the election. Then
suddenly we have video of a young white kid fighting for his life in the
streets.

It is way too soon to know how the story of Kyle Rittenhouse ends, but
there is no doubt that this event stands out from all others this year.
It does not fit the standard narrative the Left likes to jam all events.
Public reaction to it has thus far been much different than we have seen
with recent events. There is a good chance that this event may be the
[inflection
point](https://www.zerohedge.com/political/are-tables-starting-turn) in
the coming election. Even though we are still early in the story, there
are several good lessons to be drawn from this event.

The obvious lesson right away is that appearances matter. Kyle
Rittenhouse is a sweet looking kid who looks like a typical white
teenager. Even without the closeups, just looking at the video, it is
clear he is not a villain on the prowl. If he was an inked-up gym rat,
he would not have gained instant sympathy. People would have assumed he
was looking for trouble and found it. If he had Nazi neck art, then the
initial response would have been entirely negative.

The fact is, looks matter. More precisely, presentation matters. It is
the starting people for everyone trying to assess new information.
Humans are pattern matching creatures, so we quickly try to match new
events to known events. As soon as one is found, then that becomes the
starting point. As Oscar Wilde joked, “It is only shallow people who do
not judge by appearances.” In this case, the starting point is one that
elicits sympathy and compassion from most people.

This is the lesson the alt-right never learned. They not only convinced
themselves that appearances don’t matter, they went out of their way to
strike a bad pose. The fact is, the facts almost always take a back seat
to people’s impressions. The handsome, well dressed salesman will move
more product than the slovenly salesman, even when the latter has a
superior product to the former. Politics is about persuasion and in the
persuasion game, looks count for a lot.

Another lesson of this event is that you have to engage people where
they are, not where you wish them to be. Everyone on this side of the
great divide understands that these riots are part of the larger
demographic issue. People on the other side of the divide, the normal
whites, do not understand the demographic angle. In fact, they have been
conditioned to avoid the topic altogether. Like dogs trained with a
shock collar, they flinch whenever the race issue arises.

This story resonates with normal white people because it is a gun story,
a self-defense story and a civic nationalism story. The race angle is
still there, but instead of being the face of it, it is background
noise. The heart of this story is stuff normal white people can
understand and they are comfortable discussing. If this is Nazi-guy
shooting black people, no lawyer is taking the case and no prominent
people are speaking out in favor of the shooter. Instead, it is trophy
for the Left.

Engaging people where they are opens doors. The oldest truth of sales is
people buy from people. In politics, people buy from people with whom
they can relate and who care about their issues. The people passionate
about race, ethnicity and demographics are already on this side of the
great divide. The people on the other side are passionate about other
things. The path for them over to this side is through those issues, so
mocking those issues, as so many do, is counter-productive.

Another useful lesson here is that the enemy is not a collection of
super-intelligent super-villains. They often get high off their own
supply. The crazies in the Antifa media are running this story as if the
shooter is an evil white Hitler guy. They can’t see past their own
ideological blinders. Their hatred for white people is so all consuming,
they are trying to sell this as a racist attack. A [headline like
this](https://www.thedailybeast.com/teen-vigilante-kyle-rittenhouse-killed-unarmed-kenosha-protester-who-threw-plastic-bag-at-him-court-docs-say)
over a picture of Rittenhouse is so incongruous that is suggests mental
illness is at play.

We see another side of this with the Wisconsin prosecutor. A left-wing
fanatic, immersed in that subculture, he immediately assumed Rittenhouse
is an evil Nazi guy from one of their campfire stories. Charging this
kid with capital murder is so outrageous and evil, it makes the kid into
a symbol of everything that is wrong. Someone in control of his
faculties would have gone for the lowest charge and worked from there.
These people win because they have power, not because they are smart.

There will be a lot more to come as this story unfolds, but one final
lesson is that winning the optics war counts for a lot. The so-called
conservatives have avoided this story entirely thus far. The reason is
they were destroyed by the Nick Sandman debacle and they are still
hurting from it. They lost that optics battle. Public relations are a
big business because optics matter. The winner is often the side that
simply makes the best first impression on the public.

That is why those involved in dissident politics have always got to
remember to be the friendly face to the skeptical public. If you meet
the expectations people have for the good guys, you get treated as the
good guys. If you insist on playing the role of the bad guy, then you
will lose every fight, even when you are right. The person who seizes
the moral high ground is almost always the person people initially
trust. It is always better to be fighting from the top than from the
bottom.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
