---
title: "The Cynical Phase"
date: "2020-11-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-11-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - The Resistance
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21923"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21923"
---

**Note:** I have <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/225912"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a new post</a> up behind the
green door on the move Mr. Jones, which I recommend to those mulling
over the current age. Learning about the realities of Soviet communism
is a good palliative to those prone to optimism.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Soviet Union, like all radical experiments, went through several
phases in its roughly three generations of existence. The first phase,
of course, was the revolution, in which the old order was toppled and a
battle ensued to fill the void. This initial phase of revolution is
always the one that attracts the most attention. This is when the great
heroes of the revolution and the great villains of it are made. It is in
this phase we get both Lenin and Stalin, hero and villain.

There is a phase that gets little attention and that is when the people
come to terms with the irrationality of the world that has been created
for them. One reason Stalin was able to send so many to their deaths or
to labor camps is so many people kept thinking there was some
rationality to the world being created. Some remained idealistic
believers in the cause, while others became critics of the cause. They
assumed the revolution would bring clarity and rationality when it
brought only the opposite

In time, the people came to terms with this. The humor of the Soviet
Union reflected the fact that one got along by accepting the irrational
in the same way you accept that the grass is green or the sky is blue.
You don’t think about it. The jokes were often about these daily
contradictions and how the unfortunate were those who did not get the
joke that was at the heart of those contradictions. In other words, the
joke was always on the fool who was not cynical enough to anticipate the
lie.

This is relevant in our current age as we may be past the revolutionary
stage and into that time when the people adjust to the irrational. The
legacy conservative media keeps pounding the drum about how “we’re
lurching into socialism” when we have been a socialist society for
generations now. There is no aspect of our economic life outside the
grip of the now semi-permanent ruling class. Telling people otherwise is
just part of the way the ruling class controls the population.

Of course, this reality is dawning on even the dullest people, so we are
being told that the bad guys are planning a “radical revolution.” The
truth is, that revolution is well past the planning stage. It has
already happened. From top to bottom, despite party labels or rhetoric,
the system is stacked with people committed to the great reordering of
society into the egalitarian paradise. The expulsion of Trump from
office like a foreign body is the proof that the organism of state is
wholly alien now.

In other words, a revolution has occurred out of view from the rest of
us and now we are seeing the revolutionaries step out of the shadows.
This is not a lot different than how Stalin took control of the party
and government. He quietly consolidated his hold on the party, while his
rivals were thinking the revolution was still ongoing. By the time they
realized what had happened, it was too late. This realization was
probably penultimate thing that went through Trotsky’s head.

Now we are in the phase where we get used to the often-bizarre
contradictions in the rules being imposed by the new rulers. Some are
easy, like the fact that states have put mentally disturbed Jewish men
in sundresses in charge of public health. These are ornamental
positions, so putting a crazy person in the role allows the governor to
display his piety at little cost. Until the Covid hysteria, no one had
any reason to know their state had public health officials.

Other bits of the new normal have no explanation. For example, states
are now telling people they cannot make noise in their home, as part of
the alleged fight against the spread of Covid. In Europe, they are <a
href="https://news.yahoo.com/sweden-ban-sale-alcohol-10-154316953.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">banning the sale of
alcohol</a> at certain times, claiming this is to fight Covid. Maybe
they believe Covid hates loud noises and people get loud when they
drink. It is insane, but it makes more sense than the official
explanation, which is no explanation at all.

The lunacy of official policy will not always be humorous. The freedom
loving <a
href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2020/11/23/brits-who-test-negative-for-covid-19-could-get-freedom-pass-to-avoid-restrictions/?sh=7b6b13694741"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Boris Johnson</a> is now
promoting a plan whereby Brits will be issued “freedom passes” if they
comply with official edicts on Covid. For a long time, people threw
around the word “Orwellian” to mean something they did not like. The
English-speaking world is about to learn the real meaning of the term.
Getting a freedom pass for doing exactly what the government has
instructed is the very definition of Orwellian.

Another part of this phase where we come to terms with the madness of
the situation is the acceptance of official silence. In a country with
anything resembling an independent media, these officials would be asked
to explain their polices. Boris Johnson would be asked about his
Orwellian freedom pass scheme. Instead, the media is full of lectures
about how we’re all in this together. You see, this is an opportunity to
build back better, so you need to embrace this glorious opportunity.

Westerners have been trained for generations to think the media has an
adversarial relationship with the government. This will change during
this time. We will come to understand what the Soviet citizen
understood. The official media is just that, official media promulgating
the new lies. It’s value to the people is only in letting us know how to
stay out of the camps and in providing a laugh at the absurdity of
living in a society based on obvious lies. Everyone becomes a cynic.

That is something else we will learn. Pessimism is not the opposite of
optimism. The man who is sure the end is near is really just another
type of optimist. He believes that soon, his struggle will come to an
end. The opposite of optimism is cynicism. Both the optimist and the
pessimist are willing to accept the moral framework as stated. Their
actions and understanding of the world are tightly bound by the
orthodoxy. Both the optimist and the pessimist give up their agency to
faith in the rules that govern them.

The cynic, in the context of an authoritarian society, accepts that
there is no inherent logic in the system, other than to insulate those
who prosper from their position. The cynic accepts that there is no
truth in the system and the outcomes are random, based on the changing
desires of the people you interact with in the system. The cynic knows
there is no truth in a world of lies, other than his own acceptance of
it. It is in this phase we are in now where we learn that you can never
be cynical enough.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="rE6AkwHFCHYqgND8M6Y42w==cb7zK7/jnDk0VOcaVob3Ch2amOds+IoaKR0xFu8UWmVShOi45xa/1vZabscnECPN+L+"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="/Ozcvnfm+7P+wmje9NIocA==cb7m3RZoSB542secPGrNh8AI1icXv0ALNEIyYiG5X44uJBOHZaClIwn9ENfLMor6l3P"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
