---
title: "AFPAC Report"
date: "2020-02-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19961"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19961"
---

The first stop on my journey the America First gathering in Washington
was the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Harbor,_Maryland"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">National Harbor</a>, a
pod-people colony just outside the capital. I pulled into the designated
garage and found a spot on the designated floor. At the stated time the
lights of a car not far from where I parked started to flash. I walked
over, got in and found the directions to where I was to meet my
interlocutor. The keys were in it so, I drove it to the address listed
on the envelope.

Driving around the National Harbor, I could not help but think this
place is the American equivalent of the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/House_on_the_Embankment"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">house on the embankment</a>.
It is a colony of about 4,000 people, all of whom are there because they
work in the imperial bureaucracy in some capacity. Some are “private
sector” while others are government employees. They are not high up in
the system but some could climb the party ranks. Others will spend
forever as imperial functionaries until the revolution comes for them…

The AFPAC event was held outside the capital at a secret location in
Virginia. I arrived as everyone else arrived and I could not help but
notice that the average age of the event was looking to be high 20’s.
The median age was not far from it. I was going to be the geezer in the
room. This is something that is unavoidable, at least until the state
commits me to a rest home. These rooms seem to get younger, but in
reality I’m just getting older. The rooms don’t change all that much.

What does change though is the energy in the room. I’ve been in rooms
full of young dissidents and it feels like a funeral. This room was
jumping. It was also the sort of high quality people dissident politics
needs to attract. These were young men who were comfortable in a jacket
and tie. Based on my conversations, I would assume the typical attendee
was middle to upper middle-class and a college grad. In other words,
they had other options, but chose dissident politics.

A sign that something has traction is when famous people show up just to
be in the audience for the event. Having a famous person speak is one
thing. Getting them to sit with the hoi polloi in the audience is
another thing. Gavin McInnes was there, socializing with everyone.
Various internet personalities were there like Baked Alaska, Roosh the
Little Red Elephants guy and the Ralph Retort guy. Like everyone else,
they were there because they wanted to be part of the scene…

One of the positive things about this scene is the young guys really do
seem to get that politics is not about being right, but about being
persuasive. What killed the alt-right, one thing among many, is they had
the political sophistication of teenagers. You still see it with the
remnant of the alt-right. They hate on a kid like Fuentes, because he
does not go hard on their issue. They can’t see past their own feelings
and appreciate that Fuentes and his following are doing useful work.

That’s something I picked up talking with attendees. My guess is most
are to the right of Fuentes and Malkin, but they appreciate that the two
of them are a useful face to the public they are trying to persuade.
There was no one in the room thinking they were living in Weimar
Germany. Many, despite their youth, knew they were picking up from the
Buchanan movement which came and went before most of them were born,
much less politically aware. They know their history.

That is, however, the one thing that kept coming to mind as I chatted
with the attendees and listened to the speeches. It felt like a room
during the Buchanan campaign or how it felt during the Reagan years.
Those rooms were bigger and had all the same energy, but the result was
failure. The reason was what Sam Francis noted forty years ago about
what he then called the New Right. As soon as you engage with the
system, you agree to play by its rules. The house never loses.

Maybe that is a favor the Left is doing for dissidents. More than a few
people said to me something along the lines that we cannot vote our way
out of this. I don’t think these guys see conventional politics as an
end in itself, but just one of the many tools to be used in the larger
project of building an alternative orthodoxy. They don’t have a lot of
answers on that front, but at least they get it. That puts them a big
step ahead of the Buchanan people and the paleocons a generation ago…

Michelle Malkin is a good example of why civic nationalism must
inevitably lead to someone like Ben Shapiro lecturing you about the
creedal nation. Her speech was pretty much what Ben Shapiro says, except
she strongly opposes immigration and what she calls globalism. For
obvious reasons, Malkin must argue on ideological grounds, rather than
from nature. Her brand of dissident politics must be open to everyone,
who accepts the ideological points of her program.

It’s one of those things that sounds good in theory, but in reality it
is impossible to police ideological borders. The Left has been trying to
solve that puzzle since the French Revolution and it always ends in
disaster. The right-wing effort at it led to Buckley conservatism and
eventually David French. For now, ideology and argument are the tools
required to win people to our side, but ultimately the goal must be
boundaries that do not require constant maintenance…

Listening to Fuentes speak, I was thinking about how this spasm of white
identity politics has mirrored previous iterations. The alt-right split
in two. One group is seeking to operate above ground and gain
legitimacy. The other group retreated into a self-imposed ghetto. The
TRS crowd is really just a younger version of the old Stormfront
community that formed up after the Buchanan movement. Go back further
and it is a replay of the Bircher-Buckley split.

Fundamentally, these splits are over presentation. The “optics” side
cannot fathom why the hardcore cannot understand the need to make a good
presentation. The hardcore cannot understand why the optics guys don’t
see the dangers of compromise. Both sides are right, but both sides have
always failed. The hardcore ends up in something similar to a cult and
the optics guys get gobbled up by the system. There really needs to be a
different approach to this in order to avoid a repeat of the past…

After the event, all of us retired to the Trump International for
drinks. It was packed, so everyone ended up at another bar. Word must
have got out that a 100-plus dissidents were loose in the city, as many
of the CPAC people started to turn up. Mike Cernovich arrived to little
fanfare. My old friend <a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19293"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Mindy Robinson</a> was there.
She was disappointed that the bar did not have a pole for her to swing
on, so she picked a fight with another women and was escorted out by
police…

Spend time in the Capital and you quickly understand why these people
are so divorced from our reality. It is a company town. We are not ruled
by a class of people so much as by a village of aliens. Everything about
their lives is in the Imperial Capital and the surrounding suburbs. They
work, socialize, mate and reproduce all in the insulated world of
Washington. Not only that, it is a great life. The nightlife is fun. The
work pays well and demands very little. It’s like a fantasy world.

That’s the trouble though. I was telling some people about when I was
walking around Saint Petersburg and suddenly grasped why people rise up
and smash their rulers in a bloody revolution. It’s not because they are
cruel or they have so much and the people have so little. That is a part
of it, for sure, but the real spark is the indifference. The people in
Washington, living off the imperial system, simply don’t care about what
goes on outside the imperial capital. We don’t matter…

On final note. Patrick Casey is proving to be a very effective
organizer. He’s not flashy and he has no illusions about what he is
doing. He put together a first class event that came off without a
hitch. The jury is still out on Fuentes, but he is young and he is smart
to partner with Casey. They make a very good team. I’ll also note that
Scott Greer was a great addition to the show. His speech was a great
lead-in to Fuentes and Malkin. He’s an example of the high quality
people we need to attract.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
