---
title: "The Awakening"
date: "2020-06-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20703"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20703"
---

**Note:** Today at 3:00 PM EDT I will be
<a href="https://dlive.tv/Fullmoon-ancestry" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">Fullmoon Ancestry</a>. He is a writer and translator
usually based in Europe, but back in the US celebrating Covid-19. He
writes for Greg Johnson’s site and host Greg’s week D-Line show. We will
be discussing Heavy Metal and Anglo-Saxon poetry for an hour or so.

The Great Awakening refers to a number of periods in American history in
which there was a widespread religious revival among evangelical
Protestants. These periods are characterized by an increase in church
membership, but also the formation of new sects and movements. The
people swept up in the movements are filled with a strong desire to
reform not just religion, but carry their conviction into the rest of
the society, in the form of social and political activism.

There are debates as to how many of these periods there have been.
Historians agree that the first awakening began in the 1730’s and lasted
about a decade. The British evangelist George Whitefield toured the
colonies, preaching and organizing great revivals mostly among the
British population, but also the Germans and Dutch. He also converted
African slaves to Christianity, which was the first time since slavery
was introduced into the colonies. He also founded the Methodist Church.

The second awakening happened in the later 18th and early 19th century.
Like the first awakening, it was largely based in the Northeast and
Midwest. This period of religious revival was accompanied by other
social reform movements such as temperance and abolitionism. Reformers
also agitated for things like limiting tobacco use, public dress codes
and public health initiatives. The abolition movement emerged in the
North from the wider Second Great Awakening.

When it comes to subsequent awakenings, historians disagree as to
whether they constitute awakenings, rather than reform movements. The
Social Gospel movement in the late 19th century is counted an awakening
by some. The growth of conservative religious denominations in the
middle of the last century is counted as a continuation of this pattern
of religious revival. The difference is that the ruling class had
abandoned Christianity in the 20th century, so they were unaffected.

The abandonment of Christianity by the American elites does not mean
that the old cycle of moral revival went away. That old reformist rhythm
did not disappear, but was instead channeled into secular causes. The
New Deal, for example, was not solely about economics. The main thrust
of the reforms was an effort to unify the country around socially useful
causes. There were widespread reforms designed to improve public health,
living standards and quality of life.

Similarly, the upheavals of mid-century had a strong spiritual element.
Civil Rights was a purely moral cause with strong religious undertones.
The language of the cultural upheavals had a strong reformist angle. The
central claim being that America had become synthetic and commercial.
Rejection of the materialism of the age was about restoring humanity. Of
course, the feminists were building on female reform movements dating
back to the prior century.

It may be that there is a biological element to these periods of reform.
In the 18th and 19th century, the reformist impulse was channeled
through mainline Protestantism, as religious revivals, with a social
activism component. As Christianity faded from the ruling class, the
reformist impulse was channeled through social activism. The New Dealers
retained some Christian language, but they were secular reformers. The
mid-century radicals were purely secular reformers with the zeal of a
believer.

This may explain what we are seeing today. Go back to the 1980’s and the
Left was in the decline. The decline pre-dated Reagan, but accelerated
through the Bush I years into the Clinton years. Despite his rhetoric
and the media propaganda, Bill Clinton was no Progressive reformer. His
one foray into activism was heath care and once that collapsed, he raced
to the middle and stayed there for his tenure. It was the election of
George Bush in 2000 that woke up the Left.

The Bush II years were not a Progressive awakening, but the stirrings
were there, with the revival of the anti-war movement. It was the
election of Barak Obama that set off this period of radicalism and
social activism. It was in this period when race relations began to
deteriorate, mostly through the agitation of the ruling class. The same
is true of sex relations, with the many rape hoaxes on the college
campus. Obama himself became something of a religious figure for the
Left.

One important difference between these secular spasms of reform and
their Christian antecedents is the structure. Protestant reformers
always had the framework of Scripture to both give their efforts
authority and place limits on their desires. The limiting principle of
Christian revivals is that salvation is for the next life. The moral
principles are right there in Scripture for everyone to examine. The
movements may have been led by men, but were guided by a doctrine that
is clear to everyone.

The secular reformer has no source of moral authority or a limiting
principle. For the secular zealot, salvation is in this life and there
are no limits to achieving it. This is the problem with all radical
movements since the Jacobins. When man becomes the source of moral
authority, all of his actions have legitimacy. Those in opposition are
not disputing the finer points of doctrine, but opposing the project
itself. Eliminating the opposition becomes a goal of the project.

We see that in the current frenzy. The statue toppling is often
pointless and absurd, but the motivation behind it is a reordering the
present to fit the ideal. The elimination of the symbols and reminders
of past sins is part of creating the glorious present. It’s clear in the
language of the Left that the next logical step for them is the
elimination of the people they believe are between them and their goal.
The great racial revival will require the elimination of white men
entirely.

The other difference between the Christian awakening and the secular
variant is the former was an effort to elevate man toward an ideal. The
latter is mostly a war against an imaginary enemy that prevents the
emergence of the ideal society. The current reformers only want to rage
at white people, for example, who they universally characterize as
supremacists. It’s why the focus is on destruction. These secular
revivals are narcissistic and shallow.

Now, this connection to past religious revivals explains how the ruling
class has been so quick to embrace this latest spasm. They don’t know
why they feel compelled to take the knee and feel glorious in so doing,
but the revelry is just as real to them as it would have been to
evangelicals Protestants. That reformist urge is like a monster inside
them that has to feed every couple of decades. Even when it is bad for
business, as in the case of sports, they join in the revelry.

The good news is these spasms burn out. This spasm may be an echo of the
one which lifted Obama into office. That great awakening is nearing an
end. It is a reaction to the reaction of normal people in the form of
the Trump election. This summer the final flashes of it will subside and
they enter their dormant phase. The bad news is a generation from now
the young people swept up in this spasm will be leading a new spasm of
narcissistic revelry.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
