---
title: "Digital Grifters"
date: "2020-01-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19531"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19531"
---

Like most slang terms, no one is entirely sure how the word “grifter”
came into common usage, but it has been fairly common since the start of
the last century. Researchers claim it was carnival slang that crossed
over into common usage in the late 19th century and early 20th century.
It was possibly a corruption of the word “graft”, another slang term
that loosely meant financial crime. Either way, a look at <a
href="https://books.google.com/ngrams/graph?content=grifter&amp;year_start=1900&amp;year_end=2000&amp;corpus=15&amp;smoothing=3&amp;share=&amp;direct_url=t1%3B%2Cgrifter%3B%2Cc0"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Google Ngram</a> shows it took
off in the 1920’s and 1930’s.

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span><span class="mce_SELRES_start"
mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span><span class="mce_SELRES_start"
mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span><span class="mce_SELRES_start"
mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

One interesting fact about that graph is the usage of the word seems to
track with the rise and fall of social trust. In the run up to World War
Two, social trust began to decline for a number of reasons. One big one
was the financial collapse and the subsequent economic depression in the
1930’s. The fact that the word is increasingly common today, starting in
the 1980’s with the digital revolution, suggests a correlation. People
are more exposed to corruption now than 30 years ago.

Putting that aside, the microprocessor revolution has changed many
things in our culture, one of which is the nature of the confidence man.
Before the internet, running a con was an intimate affair. The con man
had to personally interact with the mark in order to earn his trust.
That meant the con man had to be able to read people and control his own
emotions and body language. He also had to understand his mark, so he
could say and do things that played on the mark’s vanity.

The life of the analog con man was a dangerous one. Having to operate in
close proximity with the mark meant physical risk. If the mark got wise,
it could mean a beating or maybe worse. The analog con man therefore had
to be highly skilled, but also possess some courage. Often, he was
operating in a world with other criminals, maybe even targeting
criminals. One mistake, knocking on the wrong door or targeting the
wrong old lady, could mean physical harm.

That’s the first thing that has changed about grifting in the digital
age. The con man can operate from a great distance, often in anonymity.
He can put up a false website that lures people in, based on certain
known characteristics. Alternatively, he can create a false persona
on-line that ticks the boxes needed to appeal to a class of people the
con man is targeting. The confidence game and marketing are often
indistinguishable from one another on-line. It’s easier to be a con man
now.

Unlike the analog con man, the digital con man no longer has to possess
the personal skills to work a mark or a group of marks. They also have a
much lower risk of being caught and they don’t have to worry about
physical harm. The result is a lower barrier to entry, which means many
more con men. In the depression of the 1930’s, money was scarcer so
people were more aware of swindlers. Today, the number of swindlers is
much higher, so the word “grifter” is more common.

Another difference between the analog and digital grifter is the former
operated on a small scale. He had to work a small number of marks at any
one time. The latter can work in volume. In fact, the digital con game
works better when scaled up as it can then rely on social proof to draw
in suckers. While analog grifting was a retail operation, often a
bespoke business, the digital con man works wholesale. He skims a little
from many people, who often do not notice the con.

One main way the digital grifter works is through front running. They
find a fad that is building up steam on-line and rush to the front of
it. This helps them get attention from the sorts of people who get
caught up in fads. These are people that like being led and need social
proof. Once the con establishes himself as a prominent person in the
fad, he either asks for support or has something to sell. Think about
all the Tea Party sites that offered merchandise ten years ago.

A great example of this is Mike Cernovich. He has jumped from one fad to
the next, almost exclusively operating on Twitter. He jumped from fad to
fad on-line until he struck pay dirt with his goofy self-help book. He
then re-titled it for the Trump era and became a leader of the MAGA cult
on-line. When Trump got into office, he then started claiming to be a
White House insider. His front-running of Trump allowed him to move a
lot of merchandise and establish his brand.

That’s the other aspect of the digital grift. In addition to front
running, the digital grifter is always looking to free ride. They look
for a movement or fad forming up on-line and then come in with something
to sell. It may be a book targeted at the vanity of the people in the
movement. E-books are a popular item, because they are cheap to produce
and don’t require a lot of work. Video is another, as it can monetize
the front-running aspect with just the cost of a webcam.

The real pros in this segment were on display when it looked like Trump
was contemplating war with Iran. The cable chat shows were littered with
people ready to sell a book on their alleged inside knowledge of Trump,
the war planning or the Iranian regime. The same people who peddled
books for or against Trump three years ago were going to selling war
books. Cable news was a grifter’s ball for a few nights, until Trump
pulled the plug on the ear machine.

One similarity between the analog and digital grifter is that the mark
builds what he thinks is a strong personal bond with the con man. In an
atomized world of deracinated bugmen, there are tens of millions of
people willing to follow a guy on-line. Just as lonely old shut-ins were
easy marks for the analog grifter, the intensely on-line, who lack the
normal personal connections in the physical world, are easy targets for
the digital confidence man.

The low barrier to entry means we are [Carny
Town](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19454). The question that remains
unanswered is that of cause and effect. Is the proliferation of con men
on-line driving down social trust? Is the decline in social trust
opening the flood gates for the con men to pour into our lives? Another
possibility is that both are driven by the breakdown of white community.
A world of atomized strangers is a fertile hunting ground for
sociopaths, serial killers and confidence men.

**Note:** Some have asked why comments end up in moderation. This is the
doings of the spam filter I’m using. It is often triggered by epithets,
certain links and mysterious word combinations. These messages get
flagged as possible spam. Now, in half a dozen years it has blocked over
3.5 million spam messages, so it is trade-off I accept. It means I check
the moderation queue once an hour or so. I approve the real comments and
trash the spam. Otherwise, there is no moderation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
