---
title: "The Outsider Moment"
date: "2020-12-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22128"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22128"
---

For generations, the source of conflict in the American political system
is that it represents a small slice of the American people. The Yankee
elite that rose up in the aftermath of the Civil War, later joined by
Jews in the 20th century, represents not only a narrow cultural slice of
American society, but a narrow economic slice as well. Since the end of
the Cold War this has become acute. In 30 years, there have been three
major reformist movements attempting to broaden the ruling coalition.

It seems like a lifetime ago, but Ross Perot was in many respects the
prototype for Donald Trump’s 2016 run. Perot ran as an outsider, on the
back of his folksy observations about the federal government. Despite
being very rich, he was clearly a man of the lower classes. His
picaresque presentation was very appealing to a large portion of the
population open to populist appeals. If not for his enigmatic
personality, he probably would have won the White House in 1992.

Of course, what opened the door for Perot’s 1992 run was the Buchanan
challenge to George H. W. Bush in the Republican primary. When asked why
he was running against Bush he said, “If the country wants to go in a
liberal direction, it doesn’t bother me as long as I’ve made the best
case I can. What I can’t stand are the backroom deals. They’re all in on
it, the insider game, the establishment game—this is what we’re running
against.” That should sound familiar.

Both of those efforts to broaden the establishment coalition to include
the majority of white Americans failed, but they set up the 2016 Trump
run. While it is clear that the Perot and Buchanan efforts failed in
their mission, it is too soon to know if the Trump effort is a failure.
The cracking of important institutions like the media and now the voting
process will have consequences into the future. Perot and Buchanan
focused on the people, while Trump focused on the system itself.

What we have seen thus far in the 30 years since the end of the Cold War
is two of the three ways people can attempt to broaden the ruling
coalition. Both are reform efforts that start outside with the desire to
end up inside. Perot wanted to bring in new people, who would represent
the broader public. Buchanan and Trump both wanted to reform the system
by reforming one of the parties. Buchanan wanted a genuine right-wing
party, while Trump wanted a populist party.

The third way, of course, is the purely outsider movement. This is when
the unrepresented create an alternative outside the ruling coalition.
They either peacefully compel the ruling elite to acknowledge their
interests or they replace the ruling elite, and the system they rule,
with a new elite and a new system. This is exactly what happened with
the American Revolution. A new elite replaced the old elite and created
a system that worked for them to replace the old system.

This is what makes the current moment so dangerous. Within one
generation three efforts to broaden the ruling coalition have failed,
while the condition of the unrepresented has declined. Just as
important, the number of people feeling threatened by the status quo has
increased. In the 1990’s, reformers were speaking for the white working
class. Today, it is the broader middle-class that is becoming
increasingly radicalized by the intransigence of the ruling class.

Another subtle point of comparison between now and that previous
revolutionary moment is the divide between the reform from within crowd
and the emerging outsiders, rallying around the election fraud. [Ann
Coulter](https://twitter.com/AnnCoulter/status/1334755615151886338) took
a swipe at Nick Fuentes over his criticism of some things she said.
Coulter’s Tory instincts got the better of her and she inadvertently
confirms the Fuentes criticism. Despite her reformist rhetoric, Queen
Ann has always been a loyalist.

Another little glimpse of this divide is in the Ed Dutton interview of
[Steve Sailer](https://www.bitchute.com/video/EGuFBQhL0w8A/) last week,
in which the election was a topic. Sailer strangely says that he has
seen no evidence of election fraud. This is something you hear from
other old paleocons and it reflects that old loyalist instinct. They
cannot question the integrity of the system, as their goal has always
been to join the system as a reformer. Therefore, their faith in the
system is unshakable. It is civic nationalism in a nutshell.

Finally, the other bit of comparison is that the Founders did not view
themselves as radicals or revolutionaries. The Declaration itself is a
bourgeoise document filled with objectivist rhetoric explaining their
actions.  Even at the point of the break, they sounded like men willing
to meet the crown halfway. Certainly, many of them knew this was
impossible and saw this moment coming for a long time, but the need to
show they were forced into this position was important to them.

That same instinct is turning up in the election protests. The young
people out on the streets in state capitals are using the language of
reform, but are clearly ready to make a break with the system entirely.
They are young and enthusiastic, so they may not see it, but the logic
of their arguments can only lead to a rejection of the system as being
illegitimate. If the voting system is fraudulent, then the results of it
are fraudulent, making this government the fruit of a poisoned tree.

It is tempting to dismiss what is happening as heat of the moment
rhetoric that will fade as passions fade. There is some truth to it. The
establishment will rehabilitate some former Trump supporters like
Coulter, putting them back on television. Others will temper their
rhetoric in the hope of being rehabilitated. The media will try to
surround the remnant in a cone of silence. The ruling class will apply
the same ointments they used the last time they suffered a populist
outbreak.

The trouble is, the causes of this last populist outbreak have not gone
away and they promise to get worse. The fundamental problem that existed
at the end of the Cold War exists today. That is, forty percent of
Americans have no representation in either political party and as a
result have no voice in government. The number is certainly larger, but
blacks and most white liberals are so easily deluded with ceremonial
tokens they imagine themselves as vital parts of the ruling coalition.

The Declaration of Independence was at the time and is today a very
radical document, which is why our rulers don’t mention it much anymore.
A couple of generations ago it was the center piece of civics
instruction. Today it has been replaced by critical race theory and
other nonsense from the multicultural fever swamps. Even so, the message
still resonates today. Whenever any form of government ceases to
represent the will of the people, it is the right and duty of the people
to abolish it.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="a5XWGIWSOG6aFGY2LHr8AA==cb7GbqK+7181e+nGQ3L2o1rdpxOCuBG6ghytVt4b5YKj2bS9IxuufzpcqrYyLidjcab"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="gqSycgfN44cFm/Ks5edfkQ==cb7yZCob/52KA9dCIqye7yVSub0esclYsGLBzrf2Q8MkdMgmQqw6LTPa2KpN7NpOog7"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
