---
title: "Perspective"
date: "2020-03-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20118"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20118"
---

In a very general way, you can divide men up into four categories, based
on their role in an organization. In one group you have the decision
makers, the people who sit at the top, making decisions for the
organization. Then there is the adviser type, who specializes in an area
and advises the decision maker. Then there are the executors, who carry
out the decisions made by the decision makers, often relying on the
special knowledge of the directors. Then, of course, there is everyone
else.

Depending upon the arc of your life, the first time most people meet a
decision maker is when they get into the work world or maybe in the
military. Maybe at your first job out of college you got introduced,
along with the other new hires, to one of the senior executives in the
company. Perhaps it was in the service when you were in the same room
with a senior officer. You did not have to know you were in the presence
of decision maker, as you just knew it. They were different.

The fact is, people who make decisions are different. These are people
comfortable taking responsibility for their actions. They are also aware
of the fact that their decisions have consequences for others. Senior
officers put men into harm’s way, senior executives decide the fate of
the company and business owners have the welfare of their employees to
consider. People good at this role, comfortable with it, have a
different air about them. Their power level is obvious.

The adviser role is often where decisions makers are cultivated, but
some men are best suited to be seconds. Look around at careers and it is
not unusual to see a decision maker have a very short turn in the
adviser role. It was just a resume builder, not a training ground. The
people best at this role enjoy mastering a narrow area and being the guy
relied upon to advise on it. They are also the type of people who have
to be reminded that perfection is the enemy of the good enough.

The execution layer is where most people spend their lives. They either
give orders to everyone else or they take orders like everyone else.
They may not like the policies and procedures handed down to them, but
they value the need to follow orders and maintain those policies and
procedures. This layer will often get called on by decision makers to
tell them how those policies are working. They are the first to see the
real-world consequences of the decisions made at the top.

Now, life being what it is, few people like to walk around advertising
the fact they are just a person who takes orders. The military solves
this by forcing everyone to advertise their status on their uniform.
Corporations have floors to let everyone know their status in the firm.
Out in the wild, people are free to fake it. This is obvious on-line,
where people often wildly overstate their status. There are more
top-shelf attorneys on Twitter than anywhere on earth. It is the same
with every profession.

Events often reveal the reality of people’s role. These are people who
were able to get away with speaking in generalities about their supposed
subject, but are revealed to have only a superficial understanding of
it. This is most amusing with the legal experts that turn up on cable
chat shows. Much of what these people say is nonsense, because they
never actually practiced law. Those that did, ended up in the television
studio, because they were not very good at being a lawyer.

We see this with the coronavirus and the subsequent lock-downs. The
people beginning with “all we have to do” are people who have never made
a decision. Most likely, they have never been in the same room where a
decision is made. If the answer is easy or obvious, there is no need for
a decision maker or his advisers. Those decisions get made by the
execution layer. When the answer is obvious, it means people at the top
anticipated it and established rules for such a situation.

A similar rule applies to those starting sentences with “We need to do”
followed by their preferred approach. Anyone who has been in a
decision-making role has heard that many times, often thinking, “if that
were true, you would not be telling me this.” This sort of thinking is
what comes from people in that advisory role. Those people are not
required to contemplate trade-offs. That’s not who they are or what they
do. Their job is conjuring possible solutions for the boss.

Obviously, most of people in the media fall into the final category.
They are the “everyone else”, people who just follow orders. In the case
of pundits, opinion makers and influencers, they play the role assigned
to them. The old guy kitted out like Mr. Chips is roll him on stage to
play the part of the wise professor. The bookish looking young person
plays the role of super-smart nerd. All of the people we see and hear in
the mass media are performers, doing what they are told.

All of this is important to keep in mind in this crisis. When someone
you think is pretty smart says, “all we have to do is quarantine the
country for a month” you know you are dealing with someone who has never
been in a room where decisions are made. They don’t know what they don’t
know. The same applies to people who say things like “we need to
implement strict measures to slow the spread.” If that were true, it
would have happened as soon as the virus was detected.

Public policy is always about trade-offs. This is true in the easy times
and it is true in the terrible times. There are no cost-free solutions
to problems. Every problem presents a set of trade-offs. Decision makers
know this and thus avoid million-dollar solutions to hundred-dollar
problems. At least the good ones do. Those who rise to the top and fail
are usually the ones who get the trade-offs wrong. In the coming months,
we’re going to see a lot of that as the decision makers navigate what
comes next.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
