---
title: "Over Simulated"
date: "2020-07-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20945"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20945"
---

Logically, intelligent life forms living in a simulation would not have
the ability to figure out that they exist within a simulation. The
creators of the simulation would have created the intelligent life forms
within the simulation, along with all the other stuff that makes up the
simulation. Presumably the creators would not want the things inside
their simulation to figure it out, so they would program some sort of
block to their ability to reason their way to the truth of their
existence.

One possible exception, one Hollywood has used to get around this
problem, is the intelligent life forms are actually real creatures. They
are unconscious in the real world, but plugged into the simulation, so
that their consciousness exists in that simulation, as if they were a
creation of it. This is the premise of the Matrix movies. Humans are
plugged into the simulation by the machines that keep them alive as an
energy source to power themselves and their machine world.

Another possibility, one not reliant on a sadistic creator of the
simulation, is one where the simulation requires a degree of
self-awareness by the intelligent life forms. In order for the
simulation to achieve the desired goal, the creatures in it must be as
close to real as possible, so that the simulation comes close to the
reality of the creator. In this scenario, the simulation is a model of
the creator’s existence for the purpose of testing some hypothesis about
their reality.

Between the two, the most plausible is the second scenario, as the first
scenario has some obvious plot holes. This was obvious in the movie. If
the machines were so powerful to have conquered mankind and turned him
into batteries, then why were the machines not smart enough to put
alarms on the pods in which they kept their human batteries connected to
the matrix? Perhaps the creator of the machines was the creator of the
Death Star in the Star Wars movies.

If we go with the second option and assume the people who created the
simulation are willing to risk their creations figuring out that they
are in a simulation, under what conditions would the intelligent life
forms figure it out? The first prerequisite is an intelligent creature
curious enough about its surrounding that it tries to figure out the
rules that govern its operation. The intelligent life forms would have
to be smart enough to solve puzzles and use those solutions to solve
other puzzles.

Rules manifest themselves as patterns, so the intelligent life forms
would have to be pretty good at noticing patterns. As the intelligent
life forms discover the rules of his existence, it would both notice the
patterns, but get better at recognizing those patterns with a minimum
amount of data. That is, each new recognized pattern would become a data
set within the pattern matching process, allowing the creature to infer
new patterns and new rules from his collection of rules.

Inevitably, this creature would reach of a point of noticing where his
natural, as it were, abilities were no longer sufficient to learn new
rules. It would need to take what it has learned about its environment
and create tools. These tools would be the result of noticing those
patterns, discovering rules of its existence and then applying those
rules in trying to discover new rules. Mastery of fire, after all, came
from seeing it and then using it in various way to discover how it
worked.

This is one possible way for the intelligent life form to discover that
it is actually existing in a simulation. Given enough time, it would
discover the nature of its universe and learn it is actually a
simulation. The trouble here is the intelligent life form would have to
accept as a possibility that it exists in a simulation. A creature that
is sure its universe operates on a fixed set of rules is unlikely to
accept that those rules are an arbitrary invention of some higher
intelligence outside its universe.

There is also another problem. The creators of the simulation could
themselves be the product of a simulation. It’s entirely possible the
one fixed rule of existence is that no intelligence entity can create an
intelligence superior to itself. Perhaps Thomas Aquinas was right all
along and there is some prime mover. The very source of the existence is
the pinnacle of intelligence, which creates imperfect copies of itself
manifesting as simulations within simulations.

We have in this simulation some evidence of this limitation. Despite the
hyperbole about artificial intelligence, we have not come close to
creating a computer that can rival the human mind. We have made very
fast computers that can do calculations and sort through stacks of data
faster than humans. These are not artificial intelligence or even
intelligence at all, but rather they are very fast calculators. The
collapse of the self-driving car project is an example of this limit.

Putting that aside, there is one other way the intelligent life forms
inside the simulation could start to notice they are in a simulation.
The point of creating a simulation, aside from sadism, is to test some
theory or model some conditions. This implies the creators could make a
mistake. They recognize this, so before changing something about their
world or making a new tool, they test the theories behind it in a
simulation. This means their simulation could have errors in it.

Let’s say they create a set of economic rules for their model society,
but forget to carry the one or round the wrong way and there is an
anomaly in the model. For example, creating more currency of a certain
type does not result in inflation. All the other types of money operate
by the rules of economics, but this one type of money seems to exist
outside of those rules. The intelligent creatures figure this out and
start producing tons of this new money to produce great material excess.

Presumably, the creators of the simulation would distribute skills and
talents unequally among the intelligent life forms in order to see how
creations of differing skills interact with one another. Maybe it is
just an efficient way to use the finite resources available to the
simulation makers. Regardless, the rules of the universe would have to
dictate that those with a skill do better at some things than those
without the skill. The result would be natural hierarchies in every
aspect of the simulation.

What if there was a bug in the code where those with extreme narcissism
and narrow intelligence can rise up to control society? At some point,
through random chance, the stupid and narrow-minded figure this out and
take over the simulation. Like the mouse utopia, this would be a useful
discovery for the simulation makers, but it would create havoc for their
simulation. So much so they may be tempted to unplug the thing, fix the
bad code and re-run the simulation again.

Assuming the simulation keeps running, some of the intelligent life
forms will see the anomalies in the system. They will work to resolve
the paradoxes, but at some point, given enough cycles, they will have
exhausted their set of options. At that point, they will have to
question the very axioms of their existence and that’s when they can
begin to contemplate the possibility they are in a simulation. The
number of paradoxes grows to the point where they cannot be ignored.

Wrapping this all up, the only way to know if we are living in a
simulation, other than being told by the creator, is that the creators
of the simulation are imperfect. They have created a near perfect
simulation, but there are enough bugs in the code to allow us to notice
the anomalies. If there are enough things happening that fall outside
the accepted rules of this world, then we can begin to consider the
possibility we are just creations within a simulation.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
