---
title: "Peaceful Separation"
date: "2020-09-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21354"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21354"
---

“Familiarity breeds contempt” is an old expression that like many
others, remains true even though it is widely ignored. Proof of this is
all round us, as Americans know more about one another than at any time
in history. The more we know, the less we like about one another. The
reason for this is we have never been one people or anything close to a
nation. For most of our history, we have barely been a country. Now we
get to see this reality every day on our media platforms.

From the very beginning, from the first settlement, America was a land
with people, rather than a people with a land. The people who settled
New England were very different from those that settled the South. In
fact, those were groups of Englishmen with a long history of not liking
one another. The Puritan settlers were on one side of the English Civil
War, while the people of the South were on the other. To this day, that
animosity shows up in a million little ways.

Even within states there is not a lot of unity. Pennsylvania is a big
state with at least three distinct cultures. The people that populated
the western part of the state are different from those in the east. That
was true from the beginning. It turns up today in cultural habits and
especially in voting habits. You could break the state into three
smaller states and the people would not care. The fact is, they have
never been a unified people loyal to one another.

The colonies and then the new country were a dumping ground from the
very beginning for people not all that interested in nation and country.
People did not leave the old world for the new because they felt a need
to be part of a unified people. Either they were indifferent to it or
hostile to it. The original settlers left the Old World to live in the
woods with savages because they were done with the Old World. This has
remained true, for the most part, to this very day.

The Founders understood this, which is why they tried to avoid creating
a strong central government fit for a unified nation. Their first go at
it was a loose confederation of states that were free to operate as they
thought best. The next go at it was the constitutional framework we
pretend to have today. The chief feature of this new structure was that
the national government was sharply limited in its powers, outside of a
few areas that served the needs of all of the sovereign states.

Much of what vexes modern America is rooted in the fact that the ruling
class is oblivious to this reality. They endlessly blather on about the
need to unify the country around this or that issue. Their propaganda is
drenched in saccharine messages about the need to be unified. The
defining characteristic of the modern plutocrat is the haunting fear
that someone, somewhere, is thinking for himself. They are hellbent on
uniting a people with no interested in being united.

The quickest way to social peace is to unplug the internet and shutter
the public affairs shows on television. If all of a sudden people had to
go across town to tell someone that they did not like their politics,
they would not do it. In a flash, a disunited and disagreeable people
would be minding their own business. The liquored-up harpies on social
media would have to join the church or a local civic association if they
wanted to gossip about people they barely know.

Obviously, that would not be the end of it, but there is no denying that
the increasing social friction is rooted in our increasing familiarity.
America has always been a land of many people, a house with many
mansions. The reason most of the people are here is they did not want to
be around the people over there. Even in America, that mentality has
held since the beginning. The migration west was as much about getting
away from the people back east as starting new on the frontier.

The great patriotic struggle in the first part of the last century
convinced the American ruling class they could and must unite the
country. After all, if they could unite the nation to beat the
Depression and Fascism, why not poverty and inequality? Why not unite
around defeating racism and being mean to people? Not only are they hell
bent on uniting a disunited people, they now strive to unite the world.
Their new unitarian creed has them as the one true god of us all.

What they are is a lid on a boiling pot of water. The more the water
boils, the more the lid is pressed down. America is a pressure cooker
right now because the ruling class keeps the lid firmly on, while
cranking up the heat. They are under the delusion that if they can just
keep it all locked inside, that lid firmly on the top, the whole will
suddenly become one. They have been convinced that “E pluribus unum” is
their calling, rather than a cheap slogan on our money.

Conservatives get grief for always saying that the solution for our
troubles is to get back to our constitutional principles. They should
get grief as what we need is to get back to the reason America exists at
all. It is a land of people, lots of different people, not a people with
a land. There can be local community and regional unity, but this is not
a nation and it can never be a unified country. What will bring peace,
is what always kept the peace. That is peaceful separation.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="kz6DHiQgOwAR5dK4GE5AGw==cb7tiqZNuiJHXW1B/jSKFxn6l0DIRJF/Qr4A5TJ6COao4CzfvTgxRKn4CO5qu0UGG3E"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="RKmZfd6IKLp7EHSeSghU1Q==cb72KkFzsDsvv1iV6B9c7TAv0/SIQbYgyhdODTMQZ6xPQNaC4zCuE2zBhgAkgdCHpZY"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
