---
title: "The Dead Enders"
date: "2020-11-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-11-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21799"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21799"
---

When it comes to not getting it, there are few that can challenge the
modern conservative for his obtuseness and proud indifference to the
facts. For going on 30 years now, conservatives have refused to notice
that America is rapidly changing in the exact opposite direction they
predicted. That’s a remarkable run of wrongness that even the
libertarians struggle to match. Whatever it once was, conservatism is
now a fantasy camp of escapism, disconnected from reality.

A good example is [this recent
post](https://www.nationalreview.com/2020/11/returning-to-the-party-of-lincoln/)
on a once popular conservative website called National Review. The
writer, like all so-called conservatives, is happily dreaming of the day
when the terrible Donald Trump is sent packing. That’s when they can
come out of hiding and everything will be put back to the way it was.
The Janus Party, one face Democrat and one face Republican, will be back
to the way it was before that mean old orange man stirred things up with
his meanness.

The writer, like most so-called conservatives, has never thought too
much about why Trump won in 2016 or why we have a crisis on our hands in
2020. Somewhere back in the 1990’s, after the end of the Cold War, they
imagined what the world would be like in the future and reoriented
themselves to it. They have not bothered to revisit that worldview since
then. They have not thought much about why they instinctively embraced
cosmopolitanism in the first place.

Like a long serving house slave, the conservative pundit never troubles
his mind about his arrangements. The role of conservatism has always
been the same as
[Dabny](https://counter-currents.com/2012/11/robert-lewis-dabney-on-conservatism/)
described a century ago. “Conservatism is merely the shadow that follows
Radicalism as it moves forward towards perdition. It remains behind it,
but never retards it, and always advances near its leader.” This is a
role the conservative was born into and he resents those who question
those arrangements.

That is the atmosphere around conservatism these days. They hope this is
finally the end of Trump and what he represents. Like that house slave
after a revolt has been put down, they look forward to serving the
master of the house again. In this case, it means they have that old
[2012
postmortem](https://online.wsj.com/public/resources/documents/RNCreport03182013.pdf)
out, thinking about how they can embrace the new diverse America. That
has always been the hallmark of conservatism. They accept what the Left
says about them at face value.

Of course, with any post from so-called conservatives, the first thing
to do is hit Ctrl+F on your keyboard and start typing the word
“immigration.” There are two hits, one for an ad and the other a mention
about executive orders. The fact that immigration was what put Trump in
the White House, or at least one of the things, has never registered
with conservatives. Trump was the first candidate to speak frankly about
the subject and it is what legitimized his campaign.

Immigration is also why the Republican Party is headed to permanent
minority status in the very near future. Virginia is solidly Democrat
because close to 15% of the population is foreign born. That’s the
official number. North Carolina is following Virginia for the same
reason. It now has an 8% foreign born population. Georgia is at 10% and
will soon be a solidly Democrat state. Helping the Left import a new
people was a bad idea, but conservatives never think about it.

A search on the words “race” and “white” yields a similar result. White
people in America have been subjected to an unprecedented assault over
the last year and this does not rate a single mention. Instead, it is
blather about being the “party of Lincoln”, a phrase intended to tell
the Left that conservatives will not be any trouble. Note too that
Lincoln killed many of the ancestors of the GOP coalition. Peddling
Lincolnism in the South is like selling Hitler memorabilia to Jews.

Now, the linked post does provide some insight as to why conservatism is
a museum piece, sitting next to whiggism and the free silver movement.
The writer makes the same call as other conservatives about the future
of their thing. They need to be “a coalition of work and probity.”
Later, he quotes Lincoln’s Independence Hall address to add authority to
the claim. “In due time the weights should be lifted from the shoulders
of all men, and that *all* should have an equal chance.”

Right there is why conservatism has never conserved anything. Probity
requires honestly, which requires a sober minded acceptance of reality.
To assert that there can ever be a world in which everyone has an equal
chance is to deny the fundamental reality of the human condition. Nature
does not distribute her gifts equally, so in the context of the social
order, equality is a dangerous fantasy. Probity requires a frank
acceptance of this reality of the human condition.

Obviously, in the mouth of the modern conservative, probity simply means
adherence to the highest of ideals. In the context of modern American
politics, that always means the ideals of the Left. Those are never
questioned. As Dabny pointed out a century ago, conservative principles
are always yesterday’s Progressive fad. When they say they seek to be
the “party of Lincoln” that simply means they intend to be the party of
whoever was the last Progressive icon.

Sadly though, conservatism does reflect the sentiments of white people,
especially the older generations. Facing the promise of marginalization
and possibly extermination, they seek to embrace those promising their
demise. That slave’s mindset is so strong, no amount of beatings will
break their loyalty to the master. In the case of whites and
conservatives, the master is that 19th century radical dream of
universal equality and fraternity between all men.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="MHQw55vUid9MzttbPK0Bsw==cb7jRUULU27bv1su81J93fcTn2pgQMNBnLLxeI+OIoUL+pBMTaQszKk7UohEJnpb3Cd"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="YQfdMEdmzvdnOBkhvLVF1A==cb7MeDKeL/Ui/Lq3Fp4aikAmp09Nd1NbmtRi9b8fIXIVH25D3gFIA8zZQa3/N0wwLyC"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
