---
title: "A Ride In The Country"
date: "2020-04-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20195"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20195"
---

During the early weeks of the Covid Crackdown, I tried to maintain a
normal work schedule, just doing so from home. I’ve worked from home
before, so I was prepared for the pitfalls that come with the home
office. In fact, I have a home office setup just to avoid those
pitfalls. The reality of the crackdown, however, started to sink in at
the end of the second week, so I have transitioned to treating this as
an involuntary vacation from reality. I’m going to use the free time as
best I can.

The weather is getting better here in Lagos so I decided one thing I can
do is get some time in on the bike. I ride in the winter, but this year
not as much. Spring is always a good time to ride in the country and
with the crackdown it means far fewer cars on the road than typical.
Good or ill, people are obeying the crackdown orders in the spirit of
civic duty and perhaps genuine concern. Regardless, I took advantage of
it last week and hit the road out in the county for a long ride.

That really is the striking thing about being out during the crackdown.
It has a post-apocalyptic vibe, just no zombies or roving gangs of
survivors. I saw a few people running or walking their dogs, but
otherwise, everyone was inside. Even on a beautiful spring day, no
people. If you have ever seen video of North Korea, where traffic cops
perform their duty, despite there being no traffic, that is what it is
like in parts of the country right now. Civilization just waiting for
civilized people.

A great example of the eeriness was a private golf club. The gate was
open, so I went in, figuring they were allowing the golfers onto the
driving range. There was one car parked near what I assumed was the
maintenance building. The sprinklers were running, but otherwise, no
people. I rode the cart paths around the course and did not see a soul.
It turns out the state has banned the playing of golf, along with most
other forms of enjoyment. A reminder that this is not really about the
virus.

I left the golf course and headed to some roads I ride a lot in the
summer, as they tend to be quiet and have a good combination of hills
and valleys. Another cyclist, younger than me, was out so we rode
together through the empty country roads. Adding to the weirdness, he
was wearing a Reagan T-shirt. I’m guessing he was in his 20’s, so he was
not alive when Reagan died. I guess there is some sort of nostalgia cult
forming up among young white guys for Reagan.

The Mid-Atlantic is a forgotten region in many ways, but it has some
great cycling opportunities if you’re into that sort of thing. The
mountains are a short drive to the west and the ocean is a short drive
east. In between there is a lot of good terrain. I told him that there
was a very steep climb up ahead and that I may not attempt it. I’ve
never been a great climber and now that I’m in my dotage, I’m even
worse. At 220, I don’t exactly have the body type to be on the
professional tour.

My young friend said something like “you can do it”, so not wanting to
look like an old man, I decided to forge ahead., I threw all the fury my
old body could muster into the climb and eventually made it to top in
better shape than I expected. I coughed up part of a lung, did the Rocky
pose at the top and then realized by companion never made the climb up
the hill. When he said, “you can do it” he was being literal. He had no
intention of tackling a steep climb. Some people just don’t like
challenges.

After the climb, the road gets flat and the scenery is a blend of old
country houses and some older ad hoc development. It makes for a
pleasant ride. Maryland is one of those strange parts of the country
where you can go from the land of suburbanite bug men to old time
country living in a few miles. Get far enough away from Lagos itself and
the state is quite beautiful, with an aesthetic that is unique. The
state has always been a strange confluence of the surrounding regions.

I went over this weird little bridge and saw a couple of soyish looking
guys standing by a car pulled over to the side of the road. I approached
thinking they were having car trouble, but then I saw one of them was
wearing a Reason T-shirt. I stopped and beat them. They knew why. Just
in case I also said that Hans Herman-Hoppe spells his name wrong. I may
have mentioned some unfortunate things about Ayn Rand’s personal life.
You can never be too thorough with these types.

I continued on down what is more like a lane than a road. This is an odd
part of the county, where you can pass a big beautiful home that looks
like a country estate, but across the street can be a dilapidated old
dump. In some cases, what used to be a farm was parceled off into lots
back in the last century. There will be a beautiful old farm house then
a handful of brick ranchers. It is a reminder that in the last century,
the classes used to live in closer proximity to one another than today.

A house that always makes me smile is a run-down dump of place with a
big Confederate flag posted out front. It has some other flag with what
looks like a Norse rune on it. The house is across from a big old farm
house. Most likely, the farmers started parceling off their land as
economic reality required. The Compsons kept selling off lots in an
effort to keep up appearances, but eventually, the old farm was all
Snopes and no Compson. Now it is the Snopes clan keeping up appearances.

Having ridden past the house many times, I noted that the flags were
once again in new condition, while the house was a little worse off
since the last time I saw it. I always imagine the owner putting out
those flags, thinking that soon, his efforts will pay off and the
fortunes of his cause will change. On the other hand, maybe he just
hates his neighbors and this is his way of punishing them. Either way,
his neighbors no doubt notice his flags, but find a way to ignore them
too.

That’s the whole thing in a nutshell. You can be sure the neighbors in
their neat little ranchers think burning flags and toppling over statues
is monstrous. They just lack the courage to do anything about it. So,
while they privately agree with their redneck neighbor, they also wish
he would just go along with it. His protest is not really about the flag
or what he may think it represents. It’s against his neighbors. At the
same time, their resentment for him is that he won’t just go away.

I went down what I think may be a private lane, but I’ve never been
sure. It runs along a tiny creek or brook. Even though my head perfectly
understands it, I’m always amazed to see anglers on these little bits of
stream. Wherever there is water, nature finds a way to put some fish,
which means nature finds a way to put a fisherman. For whatever reason
it reminded me of an old fishing buddy. He and I probably stood together
in rivers and streams more than on dry land. I should give him a call.

Coming back to my bit of the world, I could not help but think about how
easy everyone has gone along with the crackdown. Americans may say they
don’t trust their politicians or the media, but in the end, they trusted
them completely on this panic. You can be sure the politicians and media
are both feeling bold right now, having seen tens of millions dutifully
follow their commands. No matter what happens in the near term, the
long-term cost of that will far outweigh the threat of the virus.

The empty parks and streets are a good reminder that civilization is
people, not the stuff made by people. If a bunch of strangers moved into
our empty towns right now, it would not be the same. Soon, they would
transform the stuff to reflect their will. Right now, our civilization
is full of people ready to cower under their bed when the people in
charge come up with a decent ghost story. I half wonder if the people in
charge are doing this just to see if there is any fight left in us.

All of this reminds me of a great Joe Sobran quote. “By today’s
standards King George III was a very mild tyrant indeed. He taxed his
American colonists at a rate of only pennies per annum. His actual
impact on their personal lives was trivial. He had arbitrary power over
them in law and in principle but in fact it was seldom exercised. If you
compare his rule with that of today’s U.S. Government you have to wonder
why we celebrate our independence.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
