---
title: "Impersonal Tyranny"
date: "2020-01-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-01-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19761"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19761"
---

Generational politics are useless, for the most part, but you can see
certain trends when comparing generations. Marriage and fertility rates
are the two best examples. Go back to the generation that fought the
Great War and you see very high marriage rates, even among blacks, high
fertility rates and low illegitimacy rates. Examine subsequent
generations and you see how all of those measures changed. The childless
urbanite cat lady was many generations in the making.

You can tease out something similar by looking at how people ruled over
people in the past versus the present day. A century ago, most men were
directly ruled by other men in their daily lives. This is not about
political structures, although that was often true, but rather the
interpersonal relations of daily life. Men worked for other men. Whether
it was in a factory, at the docks, in agriculture or anywhere else, men
worked for men in a very direct and personal way. They had a boss who
bossed them around.

A man working on the docks, unloading ships, would show up for the daily
muster and a supervisor would assign him to a gang. He and the other men
in the gang would be directed by some other man. Correction was in the
form of yelling and threats. If there was some confusion, the man in
charge took control and told the other men what they should be doing.
There was no committee that issued a bland directive or a bit of
software that compelled a certain type of behavior.

That is a big difference compared to today. While most people have a
boss in their work place, the boss has no real authority. He is just a
conduit for company policy. He gets trained in people skills, the sorts
of passive-aggressive cajoling that passes for management skills in the
modern corporation. Increasingly, he does not actually manage his
people. He uses software to measure productivity and issues bland
e-mails to his staff. He measures compliance with the software system.

This is most obvious in a warehouse facility. In the old days, men would
pick pack and stack items in the warehouse, at the direction of a
supervisor. If they screwed up or screwed off, the boss would yell at
them. Today, they are directed by an algorithm that guides their work. A
hand held corrects their mistakes in real time and provides structure to
their movements. Software tracks their productivity. The people inside
an Amazon facility are ruled by robots, not men.

This is not just the result of technology and the drive for efficiency.
A big driver is the declining personal skills of modern people. Each
generation becomes less secure in confronting their fellow humans. A
century ago, the boss enthusiastically corrected his people and his
people just accepted it. Getting reamed out by the boss was just a part
of life on the job. Today, getting corrected by the boss could very well
result in counseling sessions for both parties.

You see the generational aspect to this on the campus. [This
story](https://www.campusreform.org/?ID=14274) about the University of
Missouri monitoring their students like pets is a good example. Within
living memory, instructors took attendance and confronted the tardy and
chronically absent. Since neither side of that transaction in the
current age could withstand the emotional strain of such a
confrontation, software will do the job. The students will happily
comply, preferring to be ruled by their mobile devise.

This is a dynamic, of course. As technology allowed businesses, for
example, to improve error rates, they began to subtly select for
different types of people. The hands-on, direct style of management
slowly fell out of favor.  Similarly, the best people to hire as workers
were those comfortable using technology. Each generation was more tuned
to the impersonal styled than the prior generation. This has continued
over a few generations to where we are now.

Where we are now, however, is a curious place. Spend time on a college
campus and some things jump out at you. One is the students are
surprisingly compliant. The days of college pranks and rebellion are
largely over, especially at the elite colleges. The students are
consumed with adhering to the rules, as well as currying favor with
their human superiors. The woke rage heads get headlines, but college
life is now mostly a culture of banal conformity.

It has also made young people socially awkward. Young people have grown
up interacting with one another through the medium of technology.
Participation in sports, for example, is at all-time lows. Free play is
unheard of today. Instead, the young generation has been raised to have
a robot master gently nudging them along, even in their interactions
with their fellow humans. One consequence has been the sharp [decline in
sex](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2018/12/the-sex-recession/573949/).
It turns out that socially awkward weirdos have less sex.

A preference for impersonal rule and the collapse of interpersonal
skills does not bode well for the future of western society. Prisons
function along these lines. The guards are rule-following functionaries
in a system. The system is designed to reduce socialization among the
inmates, in order to maintain control and reduce conflict. A society
built on such principles will inevitably lead to a similar
authoritarianism. After all, there are no elections inside a prison.

That may be what we are seeing with the rise of the tech giants. The old
organizational systems of liberal democracy no longer fit a people,
afraid of one another, but comfortable with machines. Instead of a
revolution and new political order, the machines are simply filling the
vacuum. The politicians no longer have the will to create and enforce
rules, so the tech giants have their robots do it. Again, [most young
people prefer
i](https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2015/11/20/40-of-millennials-ok-with-limiting-speech-offensive-to-minorities/)t.
They want the machines running their lives.

It has always been assumed that if mankind is going to off itself, it
will be through the accidental use of technology. Something like a
nuclear war or a man-made plague are the most popular options. It may be
that our demise will simply be due to technology dehumanizing us to the
point where we no longer have enough interest in one another to bother
mating. Instead of fire, it will be ice, the icy stare of people looking
at one another through the lens of technology.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
