---
title: "Judas’s Priests"
date: "2020-07-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20942"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20942"
---

It is popular in various dissident warrens to characterize mainstream
conservatism as a collection of spineless sissies. Sometimes they are
drawn as naive idealists who get taken by their more cynical opponents
on the Left. Other times they are described as fools operating under a
set of “principles” that make it impossible for them to fight the Left
effectively. While some of that is certainly true, the reality is
conservatism has been a cynical confidence game for a very long time.

Probably the best example of that truth of conservatism is Jonah
Goldberg, formerly of National Review and now head of something called
The Dispatch. For a couple of decades, Goldberg has played the role of
affable right-wing dufus. He was the doughy, easy going every-man, who
liked popular culture and goofing off, but was also one of those
instinctively conservative guys. He was not going to quote Edmund Burke
or even Bill Buckley in his posts. He would quote the Simpsons.

It was a great role for him to play, as he is no one’s idea of an
intellectual, but he also has the disheveled goofball look popular in
the movies. It was also an effective way to get people to overlook the
fact that he was never a natural conservative or even much of a
conservative. He was an actor playing a role. He started out in his
acting career working for Ben Wattenberg, a far Left radical in the
1960’s and 1970’s, who got on the public television gravy train in the
1980’s.

Wattenberg was associated with the American Enterprise Institute, the
symbol of conservative racketeering in Washington. This is the financial
engine for the so-called neoconservatives, which means it is staffed
with left-wing activists posing as conservatives, in order to promote an
imperialist foreign policy agenda. They also peddle libertarian
economics on behalf of their corporate sponsors. Ben Wattenberg was one
of the first models to roll off their production line.

Goldberg was also a creation of AEI. It was his first job out of
college, which is where he was paired up with Wattenberg to be trained
as a subversive. Once ready for action, he was installed at National
Review. He was then assigned the task of creating their on-line
presence, which is where most people became aware of him. His frumpy
every-man act became popular with a new generation of conservatives,
looking for something more in line with the slacker culture than the Ivy
League culture.

This is a good example of how a tiny group of people came to control the
conservative establishment in the last century. In order for a
conservative writer to get access to a conservative platform, it meant
passing muster with a thicket of gatekeepers trained by and controlled
by operations like AEI.  If you wanted to write for NRO, it meant
getting vetted by Jonah Goldberg. To write for the print side, it meant
being vetted by some other think tank approved gatekeeper.

Of course, the main source of control was money. AEI and Heritage are
the bottleneck in conservative fundraising. AEI brings in over 50
million in contributions each year, while Heritage hauls in close 100
million. They also control the flow of cash into hundreds of smaller,
less well-known non-profits. These operations underwrite conservative
publications and conservative book writing. They will bulk-buy a book,
thus providing the writer with a nice royalty.

If all of this sounds like a racket, that’s because it is a racket. It
is more cynical than that though, as the people running the rackets are
terrible people. They lie about what they are doing, causing otherwise
well intended people to support things that go against their stated
interests. They con rich people into giving them money, which gets used
to support the lifestyle of these grifters. They also use their power to
attack anyone that challenges their hammerlock on official opposition.

A good recent example of this is something done by Jonah Goldberg. Back
in 2018, a woman named Emerald Robinson got a scoop that many so-called
conservative publications had been secretly taking cash from the tech
monopolies. They were being paid to support the tech monopolies
stranglehold on political discourse. Payola has always been a problem
with Conservative Inc.  and this looked the latest example of their
penchant for pay-for-play shakedowns.

Now, Emerald Robinson was a reporterette for something called One
America News Network (OANN), which is an independent media outlet that
aims to serve the grassroots conservative. Their audience is the sort of
people who support Trump because he is opposed by people like Jonah
Goldberg. They are the talk radio crowd that skews more Huey Long than
Bill Buckley. Robinson now works for Newsmax, another one of those types
of operations.

Goldberg was dispatched to trash her, which he was happy to do. First,
he trashed her personally on Twitter. Then he posted a piece on NRO,
smearing her as a “failed-actress-turned-faux journalist” and an idiot.
He also claimed she had no real evidence to support her claim. He
finished by writing, “Look, I honestly suspect Robinson makes up many of
her “sources” and that she’s a fake reporter while claiming to wage a
war on “fake news.” That’s a serious charge.

It turns out that Goldberg was lying. Google was giving money to
National Review and dozens of other so-called conservative operations.
His paymasters at AEI were part of the operations to shower Conservative
Inc. with payola, so they would do the bidding of the tech oligarchs.
There’s simply no way Goldberg did not know this when he smeared
Robinson, so his lies were conscious. They required forethought. He also
lied when he knew all of his fellow racketeers knew he was lying.

The truth is, the people running Conservative Inc. are not just
idealistic naifs being rolled by the bare-knuckled lefties in politics.
They are not excessively principled ideologues playing by a set of rules
that prevent them from winning. In reality, they are evil subversives
grifting off the destruction of the country. They are selling out the
people they claim to represent and they do it with enthusiasm. They are
soulless grifters, willing to say and do anything to keep the con going.

What makes them especially evil is that they are preying on the most
vulnerable people in the country. These are the average white people who
have no representation in the halls of power. Mostly, they are happy to
be left alone to live their lives. These are the people who trust the
system. They are willing to trust others to look out for their interests
in Congress and their state legislatures. The GrifterCons prey on these
people like jackals, stealing their money and selling out their
interests.

The thing that puts these people in a special category is the audacity
of their conniving and grifting. When their perfidy is noted, they carry
on as if they are the victims of some new pogrom. The American Right has
been consumed by army of Judases swarming traditional America like a
plague of locusts. Washington has been their playground, their Garden of
Gethsemane, for generations now. The best the Right can hope for now is
that these people are remembered as well as their inspiration.

**A Sad Note:** The proprietor of The Woodpile Report died last week. He
was a great promoter of the sorts of content you find here. He had a big
audience, so when he linked to someone, he sent a lot of traffic their
way. I will forever be grateful for his support in linking to me on a
regular basis. Rest in peace Ol’ Remus.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
