---
title: "Left & Right"
date: "2020-09-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21069"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21069"
---

Like so many words, phrases and labels, the terms Left and Right have
been so abused that they no longer have literal meanings. Instead, they
are charged with partisan and moral meanings. The obvious example is how
Progressives use the term “right-wing” as an epithet, synonymous with
evil. Even those who try to use the terms in rational ways struggle with
useful definitions. Are libertarians on the Left or the Right? They tend
to side with the Left, but they claim to be on the Right.

The origins of the terms are not much help either. We get these labels
from the French Revolution. The Right were those who supported the king
in the French National Assembly. They sat to the right. Those in
opposition to the king sat to the Left. The West no longer has
monarchists and America has not had Royalists since the 18th century.
Even the monarchist parties in Europe are not in favor of bringing back
monarchy in the 18th century sense of it.

Of course, those opponents of the monarchy in 18th century France were
not Marxists or Bolsheviks. They were republicans and democrats in the
classic sense. We don’t have those anymore either. The modern Left makes
lots of noises about democracy, but it is just an ornament. They
decorate their language with appeals to democracy and popular
governance, but that’s just so they can pretend to be the cutting edge
of the general will, the vanguard of the people.

Then you get into the touchy subject of the interwar years. Dumb people
say the Nazis were left-wing because they had the word “socialist” in
their name, but even dumber people say they are on the right because
they were antisemitic. In the context of their historical moment, they
were on the Right, as they were nationalists and they existed as an
opposition to Bolshevism. Even so, much of their program overlapped with
what the Bolsheviks were offering.

Libertarians also present another problem. They like to think of
themselves as the fullest expression of classical liberal thinking. They
also claim to be the polar opposite of communists and socialist. In
theory that is plausible. As a practical matter, they are never in
opposition to the Left and usually support their social agenda. The only
practical politics we see from libertarians is the undermining of any
organized resistance to the Left.

There’s also another problem with placing libertarians on the Right. It
is the same problem you see with fascism. They are *ideologues*. Instead
of starting from the reality of the human condition and human
organization, and then creating a politics rooted in those realities,
they start from the end and work backwards. Libertarians and fascists
imagine their ideal society and then assume if it is somehow imposed on
society, it will alter the nature of man and human organization.

That gets to the heart of Left and Right. Russell Kirk famously said
that conservatism is the lack of ideology. In the context of his time
this was a very good definition, but it is not entirely true.
Conservatism is a collection of ideas and ideals, but what it lacks is a
*dogma*. Conservatism lacks a set of principles laid down by an
authority as incontrovertibly true. Instead, the underlying truths of
conservatism lie in the nature of man, which is open to debate and
analysis.

This is why modern Progressives have suddenly turned on science,
particularly the human sciences. Those people with Darwin fish on their
Volvos, now have climate change and diversity stickers on their Audis.
They used to wave around their imagined love of science as a gorgon’s
head against what they claimed was the superstition of Christianity. Now
they wave around the superstitions of multiculturalism to ward off
empirical truths about humanity.

This framing of Left and Right as dogma versus pragmatism also helps
explain why America is suddenly convulsed by multicultural terrorism.
For at least a generation, we have not had a political Right. When Bill
Buckley first got started, he and his fellow conservatives were in that
classical tradition. Read his [early
work](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0006BUK9Y?pldnSite=1) and feels like it
is from another planet. No one in the current conservative ecosystem
would dare write such things. [Russel
Kirk](https://theimaginativeconservative.org/2016/10/russell-kirk-ideology-timeless-gerhart-niemeyer.html)
remains a forgotten man.

As Sam Francis predicted, the conservative movement Buckley started was
eventually assimilated into the Progressive order. Since the end of the
1980’s, maybe the 1990’s, conservatism has simply been an ornament on
the Progressive moral framework, a flashing light to distract the
people. America finds itself under assault by drug addicts, lunatics and
deviants because the doors to the asylum have been left open for at
least a generation now.

Fukuyama famously declared that the end of the Cold War and the triumph
of liberal democracy in the West was the end of history. In reality it
is was the end of a particular historical epoch. The final vanquishing
of a conservative opposition, not the end of the Cold War, was the end
of that history. The war between dogmatic idealism and the human
condition that started with the Age of Reason came to an end with the
triumph of liberal democracy.

This is why we see western societies in a crisis. Those radical elements
toppling statues and screaming in people’s faces at restaurants need a
leash that can only come from a serious opposition. The radicals won, so
there is no opposition, either intellectually or physically. The
radicals are now like bees at the end of summer when the queen dies.
They are flying around trying to do what they are programmed to do, but
just end up living out their time in a trash barrel.

It is also why we see the Left desperately trying to conjure a new
Right, a new bogeyman they can attack. By any reasonable assessment,
Donald Trump is a political moderate. He is the New York City version of
Bill Clinton, which is why he was a big supporter of Bill Clinton.
Despite this obvious reality, the Left has painted him as a tyrant. The
lack of a genuine Right has reduced them to pretending Trump is Hitler
and his supporters and brown shirts.

The question now is what comes next. Most people on this side of the
Great Divide want to believe this is the Bolshevik Revolution all over
again. The conventional conservative is sure the Left are the real
Nazis. Maybe without an opponent, the Left punches themselves out and
collapses. Maybe the inanity reaches a point where a genuine
conservative response begins to take shape. Alternatively, maybe it is
simply the end of Left and Right. The Left won.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
