---
title: "What Must Be Done"
date: "2020-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20210"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20210"
---

The Financial Times, the strange colored newspaper you see at airports,
is not known for its skepticism of modern global economics. Therefore,
it was a bit of a shock to see the mouthpiece of global finance come out
in favor of <a href="https://archive.is/U8dpE" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">a radical rethinking</a> of the economic order. They
argued that all options must be on the table in order to address the
tattered relationship between the people and their governments. In their
words, the social contract must be restored after the virus panic ends.

The alleged sentiments behind the editorial are not wrong. The primary
duty of any government is the welfare of the people. It’s why we have
government. Sure, we assign it functions like protecting private
property and enforcing contracts, but that’s not the reason we invented
government. Similarly, the state defends the privileges of the rich at
the expense of everyone else. This has been true since the dawn of man,
but again, this is not *why* human societies have governments.

The point of government is the general welfare of the people. That means
defending against attacks from abroad and attacks from within. The
former is straight forward, but the latter is where things get
complicated. Defending against internal threats is about a set of laws
and customs for the purpose of maintaining order. The character and
nature of the people will determine these internal structures. Good
order in the lands of the Mohammedan is different than good order in the
Orient.

This is not a concern in a world of nations and nation states. In a
world of global capital and the free flow of goods and people across
borders, it is nearly impossible. The state cannot enforce the customs
of its people when its people change with each generation, maybe with
each decade. When economics requires the people to yield their ancient
customs and liberties, the point of government is no longer the welfare
of the people, but as middle-man, facilitating conformity to economic
necessity.

This is where the globalist on the Financial Times editorial board fail
in their analysis of the current crisis. The social contract, if there
is one, is not built around a set of economic policies. It is not a set
of rules imposed by the keepers of the economy in order to make
transactions as efficient as possible. The social contract is the
invisible bonds between the people. It is this dedication to the shared
welfare that necessitates the creation of the state in order to maintain
those bonds.

Those invisible bonds are not the creation of the state, but the result
of the mating decisions of our ancestors. The social contract between
Finns is just the conceptualization of their shared history and
ancestry. It is unique to them. What makes a Finn and Finn is not where
he stands on the map or how he does business. What makes him a Finn is
he is the fruit of the Finnish family tree. To be Finn means the ability
to one day make more Finns. That’s biology, not economics.

The social contract can only exist among a people with a shared
ancestry. If the goal is to restore the social contract, the first step
is not a new round of economic fads, but a restoration of the ancient
bonds among people. The West must first become a collection of nations
again. Only in a world of nations can the governments of those nations
preserve and defend the social contract. Safeguarding the welfare of the
people can only happen when there is a people, rather than just people.

This is the fundamental flaw of the current order. Cosmopolitan
globalism rests on the false notion of homo economicus. This is the
assumption that humans are rational, self-interested, and pursue their
subjectively-defined ends optimally. More important, it assumes that
people are defined internally, rather than by the untold number of
invisible bonds and interactions with their society. Globalism assumes
man lives in a particular society, because it benefits in some way to do
so.

Not only is this false, but homo economicus is in direct contradiction
with the concept of a social contract. Socrates could not flee Athens
and avoid death, because to do so would mean he was no longer Socrates.
Who he was as a person was defined by his membership in the *polis*
called Athens. The social contract cannot exist in a world of atomized
individuals. The social contract can only exist in a world where people
are defined by their membership in a society of *their* people.

The editors of the Financial Times are not wrong in their observations.
The great inequity in the West is a not only disruptive, it is
fundamentally immoral. The strange blend of casual indifference and
despotic intolerance by the state, the anarcho-tyranny, is intolerable
and will lead to conflict. The heavy-handed abuse of power by the
surveillance state will lead to conflict. These are not root causes,
however. They are symptoms of an ideology at odds with human nature.

That is, of course, the radical idea that must be on the table along
with crackpot ideas like universal basic income. The restoration of
nations with governments dedicated to maintaining the welfare of their
people. This means the end of mass immigration and the repatriation of
as many foreigners as practical. It means the end of global institutions
that supersede national sovereignty. It means the embrace of the great
diversity of man and the value of good strong borders between people.

Of course, this revolution in thinking will not come voluntarily. This
fact is made plain in that Financial Times editorial. The reason the
great defenders of cosmopolitan globalism suddenly sound like Marxist
undergrads is they want to preserve the current order at all cost. If it
means embracing nutty ideas like universal income, that’s fine, just as
long as the class of international pirates can ride the oceans of global
capital. If that’s what it takes to keep homo economicus going, so be
it.

It is another reminder that any reform effort that begins with economics
is a fraud, intended to delay real change from being discussed.
Tinkering about the mechanism of global capitalism is always an effort
to maintain global capitalism. That gets to the heart of what must be
done. The first step in restoring the social contract is to accept that
the people at the top are irredeemable. The Cloud People hate the Dirt
People. It is what defines them. Real reform comes when the Dirt People
hate them back.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
