---
title: "Springtime For Grifters"
date: "2020-12-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-12-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22270"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22270"
---

One of the most amusing and revealing disasters in the book publishing
business was the Naomi Wolf blunder of 2019. She was doing the rounds to
promote her forthcoming book on the treatment of homosexuals in 19th
century England. Given the topic, she expected to be given a hero’s
welcome at every stop on her promotion tour, but instead she found out
the premise of her book was nonsense. [Here is a
summary](https://www.thecut.com/2019/05/naomi-wolf-interview-book-error-bbc-interview.html)
of the radio interview that made her famous for the wrong reasons.

Ms. Wolf is a good reminder that the establishment is loaded with
grifters on both sides of the political spectrum. From this side of the
great divide, the grifters of Conservative Inc. are most obvious, but
they are pikers compared to the Left. Since the Left feeds on an array
of identity groups, the opportunities to peddle nonsense are greater and
more necessary, so they have a wide range of hucksters, conmen and so
on. The mass media is just a platform for the left-wing grift-o-sphere.

What makes the Wolf story interesting is that it not only reveals the
fraud of the political Left, but the bankruptcy of academia. This
nonsense book Wolf wrote is based on her doctoral thesis at Oxford. In
other words, the basic errors she made in reading the historical
documents were not caught by her advisor or the thesis review committee
that eventually granted her a title based on this pile of nonsense. They
just rubber stamped the work, because the subject matter fit their
agenda.

The real tell here is that Oxford not only did not rescind her doctorate
or demand she revise her work, they never acknowledged it. They did not
punish her thesis advisor, a person calling himself Stefano-Maria
Evangelista. According to [his
website](https://www.english.ox.ac.uk/people/dr-stefano-evangelista) at
the university he is still in good standing as an academic. Taken
together, this says that the academy has no standards whatsoever. Ms.
Wolf could have written her thesis with finger paint and it would have
been approved as long as it had the right title.

Another amusing and revealing aspect to this is the early reviews of the
book that are still up on
[Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Outrages-Sex-Censorship-Criminalization-Love/dp/0544274024).
Note that Amazon deletes books and pages when the topic vexes the bigots
over at the SPLC, but they leave up a complete fraud like the Wolf book.
To their credit, the publisher pulped the book, but that did not stop
reviewers from slobbering over it as if it is a lost work of Rousseau.
One reviewer called it a “moving work of creative scholarship” which is
a nice touch.

Like the academy, the book publishing business is packed to the gills
with grifters and conmen, operating in a system that has no ethics. From
this side of the great divide, the planks of wood pumping out books for
Conservative Inc. are the most obvious, but the book publishing world
mostly serves the Left. It is every bit as corrupt and value free as
every other aspect of official society these days. The only thing that
matters is that the fashionable opinions of the moment are echoed by the
writers.

Of course, what makes the grift-o-sphere run so well is the total lack
of shame on the part of the people running the various grifts. This is
an under-appreciated aspect of what is happening in the West. One reason
the people in charge are unmoved by public outrage is they have no
conscience. Ms. Wolf’s [Twitter
profile](https://twitter.com/naomirwolf), for example, features her
discredited and unpublished book. Harold Bloom described her as
Dracula’s daughter for good reason.

Again, this is something that is familiar on this side of the great
divide. Mike Cernovich has become the universal example of the sort of
sociopathic liar that inhabits the right side of the political spectrum.
No matter how many times he is caught posting a whopper on-line, he
keeps promoting himself. Normal people are embarrassed when they are
caught in an error, much less an outright lie. The grifter, on the other
hand, sees no difference between the truth and lie.

The truth is, this sort of behavior is far more common on the Left than
on the Right or on this side of the great divide. Naomi Wolf is just one
amusing example. There are thousands of people like her working a grift
on left-wing audiences. Blacks, gays, Jews, trannies, socialists, you
name the group on the Left and there is an army of grifters making a
good living peddling nonsense to these people. It is fair to say that
the Left is just a carnival of nonsense sold by carnies to the true
believers looking for grace.

Grifters are a part of human society, but we seem to have entered into a
unique phase in which the grifter is ubiquitous. Not so long ago, the
book business had standards and the media did fire people for getting
things wrong. Politicians went to jail for crimes and even rich people
feared the law. The collapse of standards, combined with material excess
seems to have resulted in a blossoming of grifters, like the sudden
appearance of mold on an old piece of food. It is springtime for
grifters.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="jIsZDGduw9auqQ7p/hPiwQ==cb7W4p836nL+m+zJkwV17CYtXhfACNXxsxXoqPHTNGgOs8FbqoRgJQBBNZ0SY4xBThT"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ceNB+zc39ewJ9JWUGJnTyw==cb7Rx81AKIlMPu5Ip3oNYi+SRvA+wehVynJiothO0JdZBSUS1U2/x98qrD4wUQjp0WJ"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
