---
title: "Do Goblins Go To Hell?"
date: "2020-09-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21273"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21273"
---

After years of false promises, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg has finally
made the world a better place by exiting from it. Her near-death
experiences had reached a number where it was starting to look as if she
was immortal. She was in the hospital more than the typical nurse, but
somehow always managed to recover. It turns out that her deal with Old
Scratch did have an expiry date and the world rejoices. They announced
her death Friday night, but who knows when she really died.

As is custom when a Progressive goblin dies, the liberal media will
carry on as if she was the most important person in history. They had
already made movies about her that no one watched, so they will all be
wearing black armbands this week. Whatever funeral services they have
for her will be turned into another circus. Maybe in honor of George
Floyd, peace be upon him, they will drop her corpse next to his. Then
pilgrims can pay respects to both on the same trip.

Ginsberg was the example of everything that has gone wrong with America.
Her tenure as a justice was defined by her doctrinaire screeds against
ordered liberty. The only reason she was on the court was due to the
unwritten rule that at least four justices must be Progressive fanatics,
preferably Jewish ones. Her career on the lower court made clear that
she would always follow orders from the Left. She did not write a single
opinion that was not known in advance.

Of course, the issue in her final days was the fact that she was nothing
more than an animated corpse, but she refused to retire. There was no
way she was lucid enough and competent enough to perform her duty, but
the system allows a justice to stay on until they take their last
breath. In theory, Congress can remove them, but that never happens, so
the judges can stick around until death. With Ginsberg, it did not
matter as all of her opinions were written in advance for her.

If one were hoping to reform America in order to prevent what appears to
be a bloody breakup, the first place to start is the court. A new rule
of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zaleucus"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Zeleucus</a> should be
imposed, where any judge proposing to overturn a statute or ancient
custom must appear before a citizen’s council with a noose around his
neck. If the council votes against the proposal the judge is immediately
strangled. This would eliminate subversives like Ginsberg from the legal
system in a generation.

After that, no judge should be allowed to serve past 75. There are
plenty of people with supple minds well into their 80’s, but people near
the end of their days should not be defining the future. Allowing a
grand council of geezers to bind future courts and future legislatures
is judicial entrenchment. There are no perfect solutions to this, but
preventing people like Ginsberg from loitering on the court is first
step. It gives each generation a chance to have their own court.

Of course, the dominant role of the court in our political life is
something that would have to be addressed. Rule by robed masters with
lifetime appointments is not only un-American, it is anti-Western. Rule
by wise man or holy man is an oriental import that no occidental people
should embrace. Judges and courts are for administering the laws that
are written by the people’s rulers. Whether it is a representative body
or a monarch, the laws are written by the sovereign, not the courts.

Because the Left subverted the court in the last century, we are
condemned to have increasingly deranged nominating processes. The circus
around replacing the last left-wing justice lasted months, so you can be
sure the people operating death squads in our cities will put on a grand
show this time. The planned <a
href="https://www.revolver.news/2020/09/transition-integrity-project-is-this-soros-linked-group-plotting-a-color-revolution-against-president-trump/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">colored revolution</a> against
Trump now has the perfect vehicle. Whoever Trump nominates will be the
center of a manufactured revolt in the streets of Washington.

Despite what Mitch McConnell is saying now, there is a good chance that
this gets kicked down the road. Both parties are pulling out all the
stops to help Biden, so making the election about who picks the
replacement for Ginsberg is the smart play. This will get the woke women
out to replace the BLM and Antifa rioters, who appear to have run out of
steam. The election can now be about female empowerment, rather than the
right of non-whites to loot and pillage.

On the other hand, holding off the nomination could drive up enthusiasm
for Trump, as even so-called conservative understands what is at stake.
Gun rights people are already highly motivated to vote in November. Now
that there is a chance to tilt the court their way for a generation,
they will be hyper-enthusiastic. The social conservatives will also be
activated by this news. Trump has signaled he intends to appoint an
anti-abortion advocate if he has the chance.

In the long run, none of this matters. As we have seen with so many
justices, once they get on the court their skin suit falls away to
reveal their reptilian nature. Whoever Trump nominates will go native
and do the bidding of the Inner Party. Like all of the other
institutions, the court is only a weapon against the people now, never a
weapon on behalf of the people. This is the result of being ruled by an
alien elite. Still, Ginsberg is dead and Lucifer has another soul to
torment.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
