---
title: "Total War"
date: "2020-06-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20730"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20730"
---

The general pattern in American politics, at least from the perspective
of normal White people, is that the Left gets carried away with itself,
then there is a snap-back followed by a calm period of putting things
back in order. For example, by 1985, most normal White people thought
the books were closed on the cultural revolution of the 1960’s, even if
the irritants had not been removed. The culture had developed the
necessary callouses to carry on with the important functions of life.

Margaret Thatcher called this the ratchet effect. The Left would push
society to the left, there would be a click and that’s where things
would stay for a while. Everyone would get used to the new normal,
finding a way to make things work. There was never a return to the old
ways, as roll back was always impossible. For the Left, what they have,
they keep, so rollback requires a continuation of the bloody war that
the normal white people seek to end. There is never a rollback.

This pattern has always been a secret solace to normal White people. You
see it with the current ructions. They quietly seethe in front of their
televisions and post their displeasure on-line. The underlying
assumption is that “they have gone too far and they will pay for this.”
The Democrats will pay for it at the ballot box and the sports leagues
will pay for it at the box office. It is a coping strategy that the Left
now takes for granted, allowing them to operate with impunity.

Paradoxically the restraint and sobriety of normal White people may be
the cause of this total war that has been unleashed on them. It is a
total war. Everywhere White people are finding themselves threatened for
the smallest indiscretion. A White presenting <a
href="https://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/502975-california-man-fired-over-alleged-white-power-sign-says-he-was"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">man was fire</a>d for holding
his hand in an impious position. He may be the first Mexican fired for
White supremacy. <a
href="https://jonathanturley.org/2020/06/16/vermont-principal-put-on-leave-for-not-agreeing-with-black-lives-matters/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">A Vermont school principle</a>
was suspended from his job for an insufficient enthusiasm for his new
black masters.

Of course, our corporate tyrants are getting back in the game. They are
feverishly rushing about looking for signs of Whiteness to erase. Of
course, the insanity of the revolution dictates that spiting Whitey
means removing black images like <a
href="https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/aunt-jemima-brand-will-change-name-remove-image-quaker-says-n1231260"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Aunt Jemima</a> and <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/17/business/aunt-jemima-mrs-butterworth-uncle-ben.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Uncle Ben</a> from products.
Nothing says racial vengeance like erasing black faces from food
products. Perhaps black people should just boycott food altogether,
since the entire food chain is the legacy of slavery.

All of this retail madness being inflicted on normal White people puts
national politics into a better light. This revolution at the top is not
really about Trump or his political opinions, but rather about what he
represents. It is easier to hate a symbol than a person, so he has been
turned into an avatar that haunts the fever dreams of the mad men of the
revolution. For them, he is pure evil and there can be no compromise
with evil, no bargain struck with evil, no sympathy for the devil.

This is a total war. Before the 20th century, war was assumed to be
separate from civilian life. Armies marched out into the field and
fought one another outside the cities and towns. There was always spill
over and invading soldiers are never polite, but there was some
understanding that targeting civilians was immoral. The ideological wars
of the 20th century changed that. The whole of society was organized
around fighting the war and that meant the whole of society was a target
of war.

We are seeing that with the Left now. This is a total war on White
people. This means the symbols, the habits, the structure of society
itself. This total war is not just fanatics in the streets smashing
things. This is a total war launched and funded by the people in charge
of American society. As we see with what’s happening in Atlanta, it is a
war motivated by vengeance. Blacks and their enablers feel they are
justified in whatever they do to harm White society. There are no
limits.

Despite normal White people trying hard to ignore what’s happening in
the hope it will peter out and they can joyously clean up the mess, it
may be impossible to hide in that dream this time. Unlike the past,
where the people in charge pulled back after things went too far, the
people in charge are now leading the charge into madness. Big tech is
pushing this stuff hard. Look at <a
href="https://twitter.com/search?q=%23RIPTacoBell&amp;src=trend_click"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this promoted</a> topic on
Twitter. They are promoting <a
href="https://twitter.com/search?q=%23WhiteStrike&amp;src=trend_click"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">this</a> as well, hoping to
keep the savages extra angry.

The fact is, there is no compromise with people who
<a href="https://twitter.com/ForestMagusFilm/status/1273568705461596160"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">think this is true</a>. The
usual suspects have spent generations conditioning blacks to hate White
people for the crime of stealing their identity, accomplishments and
labor. They did not do this because they found it politically useful.
They did it for the same reason abolitionists hoped freed slaves would
rise up and murder the White population of the South. These people hate
you and will not rest until you are dead.

Their commitment to the cause is right there in the promotion of the
“White Strike” stuff on Twitter. The dummies behind it think it is
clever, but it is just another way for the usual suspects to lure White
people into a trap. No doubt frustrated Whites will post about it on
their social media, which will then be used to fire them. There will be
Whites who call in sick and end up on a list of potential heretics.
Total war requires a total commitment and the usual suspects are totally
committed.

This is where a certain personality type stands up demands a detailed,
ten-point plan of action to fight the Left. That too is a trap. That
just prevents the truly woke from shaking their people from their
slumber. Instead they are turned into character in the morality play
controlled by the Left. In total war, the first step is to get the
people aware of what is happening to them That means not comforting them
with a solution. The only way forward is for White people to rediscover
themselves.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
