---
title: "The Parable Of Bob"
date: "2020-11-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-11-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21747"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21747"
---

Imagine someone living in a typical American city. We will call this guy
Bob and Bob lives in the city of Metropolis. Bob is a single man living
in the city, working at a job while he enjoys his youth, looks for a
mate and figures out what to do with his life. Bob does not care all
that much about anything else. After all, he has a decent apartment,
enough money to go out on weekends and plenty of friends. Like most
people starting out in the world, Bob is just a visitor passing through.

Now, Bob has a steady girl now and he is starting to think more
seriously about things like where he should live, or maybe where *they*
should live. He’s thinking about what he should do for a career, rather
than a job. He’s also starting to notice the world around him a bit
more. For example, the bus he takes to the subway stop is always dirty
and it stinks a bit. The subway has bums and the toilets don’t work. The
trash barrels are always overflowing, no matter the time of day.

Just as Bob is starting to think more about the world around him, the
Mayor of Metropolis, let’s call him Mayor Dick, announces he is going to
go on a listening tour around the city. He wants to know what is on
people’s minds. Mayor Dick says it is time for the city listen to the
people and address their issues. He will hold town hall style meetings
in every neighborhood of the city. Bob decides he’s going to go to one
of these meetings and tell the mayor about the transit system.

To Bob’s surprise, the first meeting has lots of familiar faces. He
realizes that these familiar faces are his neighbors, people he sees
every day, but knows little about, other than they seem to be around a
lot. Even more surprising, he learns that they are there to talk about
the transit system too. Like Bob, they don’t understand why the buses
are dirty and why they let bums loiter in the subway station. When Mayor
Dick arrives, they all take turns telling him about the problems with
the transit system.

Now, Bob feels pretty good. For the first time in his life he is
involved in his community and beginning to know his neighbors. He was
never much for politics, he never voted, but this feels like a good
thing. Bob is not naive though. He knows politicians love making
promises, but rarely deliver. Still, this Mayor Dick guy seemed sincere
and he seemed to understand what was being said about the transit
system. He even said he had ridden the subway to their town hall
meeting.

Not long after the listening tour ends, Mayor Dick holds a press
conference where he announces changes to the transit system. After
talking to the community, he has slashed the budget for cleaning the
buses. He has had all of the trash barrels removed from the subway stops
and he has given the city’s bum population free transit passes so they
can ride the buses and subway as much as they like. The city’s main
newspaper writes glowing articles about Mayor Dick’s new initiatives.

Bob and all of his neighbors are outraged. How could this be? He was at
the meeting and no one said they wanted more bums in the subway.
Everyone specifically said they wanted fewer bums. Bob starts to think
that maybe people at other meetings may have confused the message. On
the bus to work one day, as a naked hobo masturbates in the seat across
from him, he hears on the radio that Mayor Dick, after the success of
his last listening tour, will hold another next month.

Talking with his neighbors, they agree that they need to get the word
out to the rest of the city about the transit problem. After all, there
is no way they wanted things to be made worse with the buses and subway
stations. Maybe they don’t use the system that much or had other
priorities. They all agree to form a group to raise awareness around the
city about the shabby condition of the transit system. They will attend
every meeting and make their voices heard by everyone.

Along comes the next listening tour and Bob and his people are set. They
show up at every meeting wearing red shirts with their slogan on it.
“Bus Reform Now!” is their slogan and they bring hats and buttons to
every meeting. To their delight, everyone is receptive and peppers Mayor
Dick with questions about the problem. Mayor Dick tells the people he
has heard what they have to say and he promises to address it. “Now is
the time to build back better” he says.

Bob is feeling pretty good at this point. He organized a city wide
campaign to raise awareness on the transit issue. He got people all over
the city to tell the mayor they wanted the system cleaned up. Not long
after, Mayor Dick holds a presser where he announces that the city’s
lunatic asylum will be closed and the inmates released, with free
passes, into the subway stations. All cleaning will cease, even inside
the stations and the toilets will be abandoned to chance.

As Bob and his neighbors watch this, they are stunned. This Mayor Dick
guy is either an idiot or up to something. No one could want more bums
and no one has ever said they wanted lunatics in the subway stations.
Theories begin to circulate about what is really behind the mayor’s
action. Meanwhile, the media begins to talk ominously about a secret
conspiracy to undermine the city government. They brand Bob’s
organization as dangerous subversives trying to undermine the
government.

Bob and his neighbor have had enough. There is an election coming up and
they are going get Mayor Dick thrown out of office. They agree that Bob
is the right man for the job, since he organized the transit awareness
group and people now know him. Bob signs up to run for mayor. To his
surprise, he is greeted with big crowds all around the city as he goes
to speak about his plans for the city. A keystone of his campaign is to
reverse Mayor Dick’s changes to the transit system.

Everyone is feeling pretty good about things. The media has mostly
ignored Bob’s campaign, continuing to call him a dangerous subversive,
but the crowds at his events say that the people want change. The
election finally arrives and not only does Mayor Dick win, he wins
rather handily. It was not very close at all. Bob and his neighbors
can’t believe it. The media claims that Mayor Dick’s listening tour and
transit reform was the key to his victory. They hint that maybe he could
be president one day.

Days later, Bob is found dead in his apartment. He has two gunshots in
the back of the head, so the media declares it was suicide. Bob’s
girlfriend, now his fiancé, tells everyone that Bob was not suicidal and
he did not own a gun. The media claims Bob had a serious midget porn
problem and was mixed up with Russian gangsters, so even if he did not
kill himself, he probably deserved it. It is another example of how
democracy must always be vigilant against people like Bob.

–The End.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="n+eyAVCtxDim1PMl3aH4/A==cb7dgzXRmIQcYV4q39Ezjl1a7uxl2/4vJM4xyIEKPmRzPYbJ0mrbXiGLNOzqUP6+9Qr"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="3Pvw2gEMUJb1bxVlXZIKxQ==cb7kHptO7GlkkQ+2YSBd/2PVTxB3znJxqmJWpMZp7tFJ6qjLdVql1iMDOWKnLGVSYo3"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
