---
title: "A New Radicalism"
date: "2020-02-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-02-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=19919"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=19919"
---

One of the sad truths about the Trump era is that the Republican Party
will return to being the Bush party as soon as Trump leaves office. The
2020 election could be a blowout, giving Trump a mandate to push through
all sorts of populist projects, as well as giving the GOP a huge
majority. Trumpism could become the default position of the base, but
the party will immediately begin selling itself as a the kinder, gentler
Trumpism as soon as Trump is in the rear-view mirror.

It is one of the enduring features of post-war America. Pat Buchanan
pointed it out way back in the 1980’s, when he observed that the people
vote conservatives to Congress, only to see them go native in a few
years. It is a remarkable transformation made more obvious in the
communication age. You can just follow the person’s social media feed to
see the transformation. They go from representing their people in
Washington to <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dan_Crenshaw"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Washington’s
representative</a> to those people.

The question that has vexed the genuine Right is why this seems to be a
phenomenon of the Right and not the Left. There are no examples of
left-wingers going to Washington and becoming moderates. That only
happens when the Overton window shifts Left. Yesterdays’ hair on fire
crazies suddenly sound like statesmen. Back in the 1980’s, when Schumer
and Pelosi hit town, they were considered embarrassments to the party,
but today they are what passes for normal.

This is not just an American phenomenon. The rest of the
English-speaking world has the same issue. In Canada it is called Red
Toryism, a sort of center-right conservatism that trails along behind
their Left. In Britain, of course, it is just called Toryism. There it
is the default position of the ruling class, which is always drifting
further Left. The Aussies, of course, have an upside-down version of
this with a funny name. Weak and timid conservatism is the default all
over the English-speaking world.

It’s not just that it is timid or disorganized. As the Canadian
political theorist Ben Woodfinden <a
href="https://c2cjournal.ca/2020/01/future-of-conservatism-series-part-i-thfuture-of-conservatism-series-part-i-the-enduring-appeal-of-red-toryism/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">notes</a>, it is a reaction to
the collectivist impulses of the Left. The Left seeks to use the state
to reorganize society according to their current fads, so the Right
opposes the state as a legitimate entity. Not just the state, but
institutions in general, instead promoting radical individualism.
Conservatism comes to be defined as something just as radical as what’s
on offer from the Left.

What English speaking countries need is a conservatism that will
transform the state into something that will strengthen and support
traditional institutions. Instead they get a force that weakens those
institutions. The conservative revolution of the 1980’s in America,
unleashed rapacious global privateering in the name of free enterprise
and entrepreneurial spirit. Instead of restoring the damage done by the
radicals of the 60’s and 70’s, it created new mayhem.

You see that forming up in Britain and America in response to the rise
of archaic socialism, in the form of Sanders and Corbyn. Conservatives
on both sides of the Atlantic are now working themselves raw about this
new red menace. Instead of examining why these collectivist appeals,
including the rise of populism, are attractive to the voters, they lurch
further into radical individualism. This is every bit as destructive to
the culture as the radicalism it claims to oppose.

The culture war is one side using the state to destroy tradition, while
the other side makes it impossible to form a collective defense of the
culture. The reason for this is that, at least in the Americas, there
has never been an authentic conservatism. America has always been a
radical bourgeois project. After the Civil War, that radicalism became
the default of the political class and remains so today. This reformist
impulse is the distinguishing feature of the American empire.

That reformist impulse has its roots in the founding. On the one hand,
those people we call Puritans were collectivists reformers. They
believed society was judged collectively, which gave them license to
police the community for sinners. Advancing society, social progress,
meant bringing the bottom up in a spiritual sense. On the other hand, a
man’s relationship with God was his alone. Self-sufficiency was a sign
of God’s grace, an indication that the person was in good standing with
the Lord.

Both sides of this coin are quite radical, relative to Western
tradition. In fact, it is fair to say the Puritans were anti-tradition.
They stripped their houses of worship of all ornamentation and any
reminders of past practice. They saw tradition and ritual as an excuse
for not exercising the spirit through the regular study of Scripture.
The collective impulse of the founding, as well as its individualism,
are the result of a rejection of European traditionalism on spiritual
grounds.

This is why reform in America has been impossible. The periods of
radicalism in the name of collective reform have been followed by
periods where the institutions are weakened in the name of
individualism. These weakened institutions become vulnerable to a new
round of radical reform. This cycle has locked the ruling class into a
dance that always moves Left. No matter the response of the public at
the ballot box, the direction is always Left, just with a different
lead.

Ironically, this means that the only way a genuine conservatism can
emerge, and in the case of Britain, reemerge, is by overthrowing the
current order. This Progressive orthodoxy of radical reformers entangled
with radical individualist will need to collapse into a single unified
ideology, while something new arises to oppose it. That something new is
the defense of traditional order, organic institutions and the popular
will expressed through natural identity.

That means the way forward is an intermediate step of right-wing
radicalism that first seeks to discredit and delegitimize the prevailing
orthodoxy. From the rubble can be built new institutions and ideologies
that are salient to the demographics age. A genuine conservatism can be
intellectually conceived, but the traditions that it should rest upon
have been eliminated, so it will require a dismantling of current
institutions and the building of new ones, loosely based on the
traditions of the West.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
