---
title: "Site Update April 2020"
date: "2020-04-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20182"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20182"
---

It has been a while since I have posted anything about the site
performance or plans for the site, so this is overdue. Once I upgraded
the server last year I did not have to worry so much about traffic
patterns and so forth. I now have plenty of bandwidth and horsepower to
avoid having the site tip over. The nice thing about the current age is
you can always get more disk, memory and bandwidth. In the coming crash,
I expect the prices for server space to collapse with everything else.

For reasons I have never understand, March is the busiest month of the
year in terms of traffic and number of comments. This March saw over
220,000 unique visitors to the site, after netting out robots, crawlers
and so on. I credit some of the increase to longevity, as I’ve been at
this for seven years. Some of it due to fewer people writing in this
format. We are up to our eyeballs in YouTube performers, but very few
people write short essays anymore. It is an under-served audience.

As far as the podcast, I have no way of knowing how many people listen
every week, as the metrics are pretty much useless. YouTube provides
stats, but I’ve seen my listen counts go backward, so something is wrong
there. Maybe when they ban people they ban their history. Spreaker’s
numbers are an estimate, but I don’t think many people use their app or
site. iTunes is probably the top platform for consuming audio, but they
don’t provide data to you unless you pay them for it.

The only thing I can go on is the number of people who tell me they
recognize my voice or e-mail about the show. Having an unusual sound,
something I never knew until I started this, means people will just walk
up to me and ask me if I’m the man behind the podcast. It’s happened in
Europe and here, so I guess that means a lot of people on this side of
the divide listen at least a little. I get a lot of e-mail about old
shows, so people must be going back through the catalog too.

On the media front, some people have suggested I give D-Live a try. I’m
not a fan of consuming video, so I have no interest in doing video, but
our folks are doing what amounts to radio talk shows on the D-Live
platform. I’ve listened to White Art Collective on there from time to
time. Fuentes is now their biggest act, so it would say the tolerance
levels are much higher on D-Live than other platforms. I’m thinking a
Saturday night or Friday night show would be fun, but I’m open to
suggestions.

Similarly, request lines are open on the podcast, as far as topics. I
like to do a commentary about the news once a month and a world report
once a quarter or so, but otherwise I just do what comes to mind the
Sunday before the show. I’m getting requests to read and review books
from small publishers lately, so I thought doing a show on a book or
books might be fun. I did a show on Shapiro’s book a while back and that
got a good response, but that may just be because I trashed him.

As far as the site, on the drawing board for over a year has been a plan
to modernize it a bit, but time is my enemy. Some suggested a message
board for donors, which is a possibility. Someone else suggested a badge
for donors in the comment section, which seems like a good idea. I’ll
need to do some coding for that, which is why it has not happened yet.
Again, time is my enemy. I like the plain style I use, so I will not be
doing any big changes on that front. Plain site. Plain language.

The travel schedule has been squashed for this year, I think. All events
I was expected to attend have been postponed indefinitely. This summer I
hope to escape Lagos, but this lock down could delay that depending on
what happens with economy. There’s rumblings that the mortgage market is
in trouble, so house buying could be a totally different thing in a few
months. Even so, if I do escape, travel will be out of the question for
a while, so I probably will not be on the road for the rest of the year.

The floor is now open…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
