---
title: "Permanent Crisis"
date: "2020-03-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-03-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20039"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20039"
---

In the last century, radicals liked to talk about permanent revolution,
a term popularized by Karl Marx in the 19th century. The concept
involves a revolutionary class continuing to push for its interests
despite the political dominance of the bourgeoisie. The working class
has to maintain a militant outsider approach to politics, even after the
revolution that brings down the capitalist system. Revolution was a
process, rather than an event, which operated outside of conventional
politics.

In practice, permanent revolution resulted in a death spiral for
radicals, as it provided a reason to attack any attempt to maintain
stability. The first wave radicals gained power and began to impose
order, only to be met by a second wave demanding more radical changes
and accusing the first wave of lacking authenticity. Since there is no
limiting principle, no such thing as good enough, in radical politics,
there is always someone ready with a more radical program than the most
radical.

The funny thing about this concept is radicals have never grasped what
it means about their program. Karl Marx may have grasped what he was
saying, it is hard to know, but he came up with the idea by observing
Napoleon’s rise to power. Marx saw that permanent war was what gave
Napoleon legitimacy. France was in a permanent state of war with Europe.
The alternative to granting him absolute authority to fight the war was
the possibility of defeat or even the conquest of France by her enemies.

Therefore, what would give the proletariat legitimacy was a permanent
revolution, by which he meant a permanent crisis. If a crisis of
capitalism allowed the middle class to seize power, then fostering
crisis would provide opportunities for the working class to press their
interests. In a way, permanent revolution, at least initially, is
permanent instability. Eventually, however, permanent instability is the
only justification for radicalism. The crisis must never end or the
revolution ends.

Of course, Orwell understood this. In Animal Farm and 1984 we see how
the permanent crisis, the ever-present threat of annihilation, was the
true source of power for the people in charge. Because of that threat,
everything in society must be organized, without question, in defense
against the threat. Therefore, questioning these efforts is
anti-revolutionary and can never be tolerated. In fact, the hunt for
enemies of the revolution becomes a part of the permanent crisis.

What this means is that socialism, at least revolutionary socialism,
cannot function outside of a crisis. It is a last resort position a
desperate people will tolerate in times of extreme duress. That’s the
odd thing about the concept. It is an admission that the radical program
cannot exist in easy times. It can only thrive when the people, or at
least a large swath of them, are sure their existence is on the knife
edge. It also means the revolution can never achieve its stated goals.

This contradiction within radicalism is important to keep in mind when
looking at modern politics, broadly inclusive of current events. In
America, we have been in some form of crisis since the turn of the
century. Under Bush the Minor, it was Islamic terrorism that put us on
permanent war footing. The ruling class stripped away most of our
remaining rights in the name of fighting this existential threat.
America now has political prisoners and a security state that spies on
citizens.

In the Obama years, the permanent crisis over Islamic terrorism slowly
gave way to a laundry list of left-wing bogeymen. Racism, antisemitism,
various imaginary crimes against imaginary identity groups. The rape
hoax on campus was a classic example of trying to maintain the permanent
crisis. Coeds were supposed to act as if Chad and Biff were lurking
around every corner, ready to rape them. Of course, this warranted
preemptive strikes against Chad and Biff in self-defense.

The Trump years have been an exhausting series of crises that have
formed into a miasma that hangs over society. First it was the Russians
“attacking our democracy” then the various show trials and performances
related to it. The nomination of a judge turned into a bizarre rape
fantasy for the nation’s old hens. Now, of course, we are gripped by the
invisible bogeyman called the Covid-19. No doubt, this insidious plague
was dreamed up by Snowball and Goldstein.

What the last two decades have been, really starting after the Cold War,
is the bourgeois version of permanent revolution. The managerial elite
maintain a militant and independent approach to politics, seeing
themselves outside of society. They are the revolutionary class that is
driving progress by driving the revolution. When they shriek about
threats to the democracy, they really mean a threat to the revolution,
their revolution, the managerial revolution.

You see one way this is playing out in the inner party primary. The
threat of Trump and his Russian allies requires extraordinary measures
by the inner party. In such a crisis, the Sanders people cannot be
tolerated. All that talk about practical policy and addressing public
needs must wait until after the revolution is achieved. In the means
time, the party must rally around a dementia patient, who often forgets
his own name and shouts at people for no reason.

The old radicals understood something about the class war they promoted.
Marxist intellectuals understood they lacked the stones to fight for
their cause. These were soft men who lived soft lives. The working
class, on the other hand, had lots of tough guys comfortable with
violence. The bourgeois class was also full of soft men, comfortable
living the liberal lifestyle. In a genuine class struggle, they would
not stand a chance against the working class. They would not fight.

The managerial revolution, on the other hand, is led by radials, who
make many of the same assumptions. The difference is there is no working
class. They destroyed it by auctioning off the industrial base. Instead
they will use their power over institutions, like the police, the
security apparatus, finance and so on, to intimidate the middle-class
into going along with the program. The permanent crisis legitimizes
endless intrusions into daily life by the managerial state,

There are two problems facing the permanent managerial revolution. One
is the people running it are increasingly incompetent. The fact that the
inner party is reduced to using a husk of man as a shield against Trump,
a guy detested by the outer party, speaks to the lack of competence in
politics. Within living memory, Trump would not have won a single
primary, because the party would not have allowed it. Biden would never
have been allowed to run, much less be installed as the nominee.

The other problem faced by the managerial class is something all
revolutions face at some point in their evolutionary cycle. That is,
crisis is exhausting. For the radicals, part of the appeal is the
endless interpersonal shenanigans. For normal people, the endless drama
of politics is tiresome. The permanent crisis required to sustain
radical politics, to keep the revolution going, is exhausting. Oddly,
the reason Biden became the nominee is black people got tired of white
people drama.

The thing is, the permanent crisis has another flaw. It channels the
natural energies of a people away from industry and community. The
permanent revolution becomes a bonfire onto which is thrown the social
capital of a people. For the revolutionary, society is the sum of men,
exclusive of their inner connections. They place no value on the social
capital they burn for revolutionary fuel, because they see no purpose in
it. To the managerial class, society is just kindling.

We are getting a glimpse of this with the Chinese Flu. The federal state
is paralyzed by the growing incompetence of the managerial class. State
and local responses have been incoherent, because the normal social
capital that would animate such a response has been largely destroyed.
You cannot have a community response when there are no natural
communities of people. Clusters of strangers in temporary developments
named after what was knocked down to build them are not communities.

This is something the paleocon theorists could not see. They understood
the birth and development of the managerial class, but could not imagine
its demise. It turns out that the end point of the managerial revolution
is the same as all radical projects. It consumes what it needs to exist
and is eventually overtaken by incompetence. Late empire America is now
ruled by self-absorbed stupid people, incapable of performing the basic
duties of their office. The end is inevitable.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
