---
title: "The Ruling System"
date: "2020-05-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20405"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20405"
---

There are a variety of ways to hold power. Some are better than others
and over the history of man everyone one has been tried with varying
degrees of success. By far the most effective way of maintaining power
is to get those over whom you hold power to think their interests lie in
you remaining in power. If you can get your subjects to think that their
very survival depends upon you remaining their ruler, not only will they
obey your orders, but they will volunteer to defend your position.

Of course, convincing even a majority of this can be expensive and
difficult, so a better way to work this is to convince the people at the
top. Every society is hierarchical, so if you get the ruling class to
think their interests are your interests, then your interests become
their interests. Not only will they defend your position, but they will
seek to strengthen it when they can, as it benefits them. With
everyone’s interest commingled, opposing the king means threatening the
system itself.

The best example of this is probably the court at Versailles under Louis
XIV. He not only brought the nobility of France under one roof; he
created a social milieu for them that transcended their existence. To be
a noble meant having a place at court. Your position in the ruling class
was defined by your position and status in court. The aristocracy of
France, in effect, became a society in itself, isolated from and
distinct from the people over whom it ruled. It was a society atop a
society.

If you examine the run-up to the French Revolution, it is clear that the
system that evolved to that point had overtaken the people in charge of
it. It was clear to most everyone that reform was needed. The finances
of the king were a disaster and the nobility were being overtaken by
changes in technology and economics. Yet, all reform efforts failed as
reform was a threat to the nature of the system. Like a sentient being,
the system conspired to thwart all reform efforts.

A similar problem vexed the Soviet Empire. The long terrifying reign of
Stalin triggered an evolution in the system. Instead of one man ruling
with an iron fist, a collection of men at the top of the party would
hold power. The man at the top would depend on the party for power and
legitimacy, while members would depend on the party for their power
within the system. It’s what allowed Khrushchev to outmaneuver Malenkov,
but also what led to the fall of Khrushchev and the reversal of his
reforms.

One very interesting thing about the Soviet system that evolved after
the revolution is how the party became a social organ, rather than a
technocratic one. To rise in the party meant to rise in the narrow
communist society that ruled over the larger empire, much in the same
way the French aristocracy ruled over France. To be outside the party
was to be no one. That threat alone was enough for most party members to
wake up every morning thinking about how best to serve the party.

The social aspect cannot be overstated. Like Versailles, party members
lived among one another and socialized with one another. Their children
went to the same schools and eventually married one another. In the case
of the Moscow elite, they lived in the same building. The ruling elite
was not just a separate class of people, but a separate and distinct
society. If it had carried on for long enough, the communist party would
have been a separate race of people.

We see the same thing has evolved in the American Empire. If you take
time to read up on the Flynn case or the much larger plot around it, you
see a large cast of people with one thing in common. They all live
together as a social class. Some were having sex with one another.
Others had been friends since college. Others developed their
relationships when they came to Washington. All of these social
relationships transcend the formal positions and titles of the people.

For example, one thing the plotters liked to do is plant stories in the
community paper, the Washington Post, which they would then use as
evidence of something needing official investigation. This was possible
because the people in the FBI had old friends at the Post, who they
could grab a bite with and pass on the information. The “reporter” was
happy to oblige, because he had the same interests as the FBI man. They
were friends indebted to the same system that made their lives possible.

Throughout the scandal, you see people happily going along with what
they know is against the rules, possibly even illegal, because they just
assume it is the right thing to do for the system. The righteous
indignation from these people when questioned is not an act for the
cameras. These are products of a social world that defines who they are
as people. They see their actions as a defense of a system that makes it
possible for them to exist. They think they are heroes.

In a way, they are heroes. The very core of western civilization is the
Greek notion of the citizen, as a man defined by his relationship in his
*polis*. In his final hours, Socrates explains to his old friend Crito
that he must accept his fate, as to do otherwise would make him an enemy
of that which defines him. To flee Athens and escape death would make
him an enemy of the law. That would make him an enemy of Athens, and
thus no longer part of it and no longer Socrates.

Now, none of the people in the seditious plot to overturn the 2016
election are Socrates or even capable of pronouncing his name. That’s
not the point. It’s that they see themselves as members of a community.
That membership not only provides for their material existence, it
defines who they are as people. To defend it from a threat, even a duly
elected threat, is to defend who they are as people. Even the slightest
change in the system, no matter how necessary, threatens their
existence.

This is why Trump has run into a stone wall as president. The entirety
of the system, like a living organism fighting for its life, has
organized itself against him. His failure to grasp this reality has made
him entirely ineffective. It’s also why the investigation into the
scandals will go nowhere. The system cannot testify against itself. It’s
also why the Clintons were protected for so long. Once they were
assimilated, they were another node in the system to be defended at all
cost.

The lesson from the French Revolution is that once a ruling class
becomes a ruling community, reform is no longer possible. The only way
to change the system is to decapitate it. The lesson of the Soviet
system is that technology can perpetuate the community until it exhausts
itself. That is what happened with the Russians. The party eventually
was overrun with people willing to ride in the wagon, but desperately
short on men capable of pulling the wagon.

How the American system will end is anyone’s guess, but it will not
carry on forever, as no organism lives forever. The low quality of the
people involved in the FBI shenanigans suggests they are reaching the
same point as the Soviets in the 1980’s. No matter how cleverly
designed, a system needs capable operators. If John Brennan and James
Comey are the elite, the community has a serious inbreeding problem.
Still, the fact that it staggers on despite this speaks to the power of
societal inertia.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
