---
title: "The Paradox Of The Market"
date: "2020-06-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20753"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20753"
---

An axiom of liberal democracy is that the more open the system the more
choices there are within the system. A market for widgets, if it is an
open market, will have the maximum number of widget makers and widget
suppliers. The marketplace of ideas, if it is open to all, will have the
full range of ideas. Similarly, as long as the demand side is
unrestricted, the full spectrum of demand will be represented. Every
widget buyer will have the chance to demand his type of widget.

This is the starting point for modern societies. It is no longer a point
to be debated and certainly not questioned. This is obvious in the
non-debate over tech censorship. Any effort to discuss what is going on
with companies like Google and Twitter is met with a wall of sound about
the sanctity of private firms operating in the market. “Build your own
platform” has become the top single in the amen chorus. The marketplace
is now a god that provides what the people need and deserve.

In theory, the chorus should be right. If everyone who wants to make
widgets is allowed to make widgets, then there should be a widget maker
for every type of widget demanded by the public, assuming the widget can
be produced at a profit. Even people wanting free widgets could be
supplied by charity. Outside of the extremes, if there is a way to make
a profit by meeting even the most bizarre demands for a product or
service, someone will find a way to meet that demand.

Something similar should happen in public discourse. If the public space
is open, then everyone can present their ideas. If everyone is free to
listen, or not listen, to those ideas being offered up, the marketplace
should develop in the same way as it should with a product or a service.
The insane ideas will have a small audience, while the sensible ideas
will gain a larger audience. The marketplace of ideas will sort and
stack the ideas on offer based on the preferences of the audience.

This is a bit redundant, but it is important to think about this axiom
of liberal democracy while considering current reality. If the market
place for goods and services functioned as believed, then we would have
more than two mobile phone makers. There would be more than one search
engine. We would have lots of small car makers, rather than a handful of
global operators. In fact, General Motors should have gone out of
business decades ago based on market principles.

In the realm of ideas, we should have a dozen political parties
flourishing to one degree or another at the state and national level.
For example, there is no obvious reason why there should not be
political parties that operate just as the state level. According to the
axioms of liberal democracy, there should be state parties that focus
just on state and local issues, maybe operating as a feeder to a
national party. Yet, we have just two parties that are really just two
faces of a single party.

It is a paradox of markets that the internal dynamic of the market leads
to fewer choices and maybe even no choice. Take the desktop computer
market, for example. The only choice is the color and the label of the
Chinese slave camp that produced it. Inside, the parts all come from the
same source. Alternatives to the standard PC are fringe options that
exist for hobbyists and weirdos. You see this everywhere you look around
the marketplace. Our markets are oligopolies now.

It goes beyond market consolidation. Another aspect of this is that as
some dominant players emerge, they begin to insulate themselves from
demand. In fact, it is possible that the quest for market domination is
actually an effort to insulate the supplier from the pressures of the
marketplace. The players initially experiencing success shift from
competing for clients to competing to wall off their share of demand in
order to prevent others from competing for that market share.

You see this with sports. The NASCAR phenomenon is assumed to be driven
by the edicts of this weird new religion that has gripped the great and
good. That may be one aspect of it, maybe even the primary aspect, but
there also seems to be a desire to get rid of their own audience. That
is, NASCAR would be fine with not having a live crowd and depending
entirely on television money. Then they no longer have to be responsive
to the demands of the customers.

The temptation here is to say that the fans will not watch, but in the
realm of television these days, ratings matter very little. ESPN, for
example, gets the bulk of its revenue from mandatory cable fees. If you
have a TV sub through the local cable monopoly or a service like Hulu,
you pay ESPN eight dollars per month. It does not matter if you watch,
you pay the fee. All cable channels work off this model. Once again, the
glory of the market place is to result in a monopoly and no market.

This dynamic where the dominant suppliers seek to eradicate the demand
side is evident in politics. Both faces of the uniparty are now onboard
with vote by mail, for example, which eliminates the pesky demands of
the voters. This form of voting makes for unlimited fraud, so we will
end up with Stalin’s maxim. “It’s not the people who vote that count.
It’s the people who count the votes.” Since picking one party or the
other has no effect on policy, voting will soon be entirely ceremonial.

It is always tempting to confuse a paradox with a contradiction. Critics
of modern capitalism, for example, will claim that the oligarchs are not
really capitalist in the free market sense. They are corrupting the
system. Similarly, people will claim that the problem with politics is
that a small group of highly corrupt people are subverting the
democratic system. In other words, the axioms of the market place are
true, it’s just that the current systems are not adhering to them.

The trouble with this line of reasoning is it suggests that the
marketplace itself selects for the sorts of people who seek to subvert
the marketplace. Everywhere we look, the great experiment in open
markets has had the same result. Whether it is finance, technology,
ideas or politics, the result is small club that controls everything,
not only to their exclusive benefit, but to the detriment of the people
they allegedly serve. It is almost as if the market selects for sadists
who despise their customers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
