---
title: "President LARP"
date: "2020-06-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20629"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20629"
---

After close to a week of dithering, Jared Kushner allowed Trump to stage
a publicity stunt, where he waddled out of the White House down to the
church the looters had burned the other night. In front of the cameras,
Trump held up a Bible and said some things. They said it symbolized
national resilience to the mob violence that is engulfing the nation’s
cities. In reality, it was the perfect image for a presidency that is
nothing more than live action role playing.

Trump holding up a Bible is as ridiculous as Democrats talking about the
Constitution and the rule of law. Trump is famously not religious. His
life has been one of hedonism and self-regard. He does not attend
services and breaks into hives whenever he has to speak about religion.
There’s a good chance he was worried that he may be struck by lightning
out there. It was the sort of highly choreographed political stunt that
symbolizes everything that people hate about democracy.

That said, it will work with the plan-trusters.
<a href="https://twitter.com/ScottMGreer/status/1267596999647539201"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Scott Greer</a> took to
Twitter to announce that Trump saved his re-election campaign. Lots of
his fellow plan-trusters seem to agree, at least for now. Way back in
the election of 2016, <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/jan/24/donald-trump-says-he-could-shoot-somebody-and-still-not-lose-voters"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Trump said</a> “I could stand
in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn’t lose any
voters.” He took some grief for that at the time, but he was right. For
his supporters, Trump is a vehicle through which they experience an
alternative reality.

Under Trump, a new form of fantasy game has emerged. This new game is
where Trump voters, and those adjacent, rush to social media in a crisis
and start posting about “what Trump should do…” It’s followed by what is
often a sensible suggestion, but one that will never happen. Then a long
back and forth of various strategies about what he should do ensues.
Sometimes Trump will goose this along with some tweets that are designed
to encourage this form of role playing.

Of course, Trump never does anything. He’ll tweet out some outrage porn
to the Left and make some vague threats, but otherwise he is all talk
and no action. Right now, for example, he and President Kushner are
trying to figure out how to win back the six black votes they were
counting on this November. Now that “lowest black unemployment in
history” has proven to be something less than the inspirational message
they assumed, it is back to the drawing board.

In lieu of action, these internet fantasies fill the void left in these
voter’s minds. They get to pretend that Trump will actually do something
other than laugh at them. They look at Trump awkwardly holding a Bible
in front of St. John’s Church and imagine it is a great moment where the
country rallies around their hero. They get the same rush from the make
believe as they would from the real. Trump pretending to do whatever it
is he is promising is the same as Trump actually doing something.

In fact, they often believe it is real. Talk to a true-blue MAGA type
and they will tell you Trump has clamped down on immigration and is now
“draining the swamp.” If you point out the facts, they will call you a
“libtard” and refuse to discuss it further. For example, many of these
people not only think he is building the wall, but that it is already
built, which why he no longer discuss it. The fantasy version of the
Trump presidency is so fulfilling it has supplanted the real Trump
presidency.

This is a form of false consciousness. Instead of workers unable to
understand class reality and their own exploitation, it is white
conservatives unable to process their diminished status in America. In
the real world, they are at the bottom of the social hierarchy, slowly
being eliminated from society. In the fantasy realm, they are still the
top dogs. In the fantasy version of Trump, he is one of them, acting on
behalf of their interests, when in reality, he is a tool of the ruling
class.

An interesting off-shoot of this is that when you can get a Trump
supporter to acknowledge that he has done nothing for them, they switch
tracks. He stops being the God-Emperor and becomes Jimmy Stewart in Mr.
Smith Goes To Washington. He is the sincere reformer being thwarted by
the corrupt machine. In an instant, the main character in the fantasy
goes from omnipotent leader to impotent victim. Trump fighting
Washington is just another version of the fantasy.

Both sides of this fantasy have one thing in common. There is an
unspoken, instinctive contempt for democracy. In the God-Emperor mode,
Trump is issuing edicts and imposing his will on the nation. In the
tragic hero version, the will of the people is thwarted by a corrupt
system. In both versions, voting and debating, the core of democracy,
have no role. One version is the hero slaying democracy and the other
version is the hero being slain by democracy.

This form of false consciousness is not exclusive to Trump fans. His
enemies now engage in their own fantasies. They imagine him as Orange
Hitler and they carry on as if he really is a dictator. Further, they
will convince themselves that Joe Biden is reversing all of Orange
Hitler’s polices, once he is in the White House. Within days of Biden
taking office, they will pretend Biden has swept aside all of the things
they spent four years pretending Trump was doing.

The difference is that with the Left, they expect the fantasy to be made
real and they get angry when it fails to happen. We saw this in the
Obama years. They really did think he was the prophesied messiah, who
would usher in a new era. As the reality of his administration became
too hard to ignore, the Left got mad. When Trump won in 2016, they got
super-agitated and have remained so ever since. The current round of
riots are just a carryover from the disappointment of the Obama years.

For the normie right, anger and rioting are off the table, so they will
continue to indulge in the fantasy game that is the Trump presidency. He
will continue to monitor the situation and consider doing things. Maybe
a symbolic executive order will be tossed in for effect. Meanwhile, his
base will invent scenarios in which he drains the swamp and owns the
libs. The less he does, the deeper the fantasy. Trump is the first
virtual President, playing a role for the amusement of his voters.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
