---
title: "Idle Hands"
date: "2020-09-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-09-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21301"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21301"
---

The old expression, “idle hands do the Devil’s work” is one of those
phrases that has lost much of its meaning in the modern age. One reason,
of course, is the steady removal of Christianity from daily life. Few
people attend church and Christianity has been removed from the public
square by the ruling class. People look up for cultural cues, so a
society run by secularists will be stripped of religious references.
Still, the expression offers some insight into what currently vexes
western societies.

Look around the typical large enterprise and what you will find is a lot
of people engaged in what is best described as busy work. In the private
sector, there are hundreds of job titles that have been invented for
tasks that have very little, if anything, to do with the mission of the
enterprise. These roles have either been created to meet a demand from
government or they have been created to inoculate the firm against
current cultural fads like diversity.

Of course, record numbers of people are employed by the state. Not all
of them work directly for government. Many work in “private firms” but
those private firms exist for only one customer, the government. The
imperial capital is festooned with consultants who advise on things like
the proper arrangement office furniture. There are thousands of firms
owned by special people that exist just so vendors can meet their
special people quota in government contracts.

When you factor in education and health care, probably a third of the
workforce is engaged in work that is unnecessary. If not for the endless
cultural pogroms and government mandates, these jobs would not exist.
It’s just busy work for people who tick a box that needs to be ticked.
Some significant portion of these people actually cause harm while
performing their work. Human resource departments are fountains of
trouble making at most companies.

A good example of how people engaged in pointless work create trouble
for society is the Antifa professor [Megan
Squire](https://facstaff.elon.edu/msquire/). She is called a computer
science professor at Elon University, but in reality, she is just a busy
body with too much free time. When not teaching Python to South Asians,
she spends her days listening to podcasts Antifa has deemed
unacceptable. She writes down the names of people who appear on these
shows and then publishes these lists in left-wing publications.

Now, Elon could fill the teaching role with a grad student or a contract
instructor looking to make some extra money. Instead, her role is
expanded to include “data science, cyber security, online extremism.”
These days, anytime you see the phrases “data science” and “cyber
security” in a job description it means the person is not engaged in
meaningful work. Of course, “online extremism” is a nonsense phrase that
has moral significance to the far-left, but is otherwise meaningless.

On <a
href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kIZFq74v-i-AkoQlvpYUgvH5FNrPAk95h1ufTF-vs7Q/edit#"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">her resume</a>, Mx. Squire
describes her work this way. “My main research focus is at the
intersection of data mining, cybersecurity, and online communities. I
actively develop data storage and measurement techniques for studying
networks of toxicity, hate speech, racism, and extremism in online
social spaces.” Currently she has a grant for the purpose of
“Documenting, Disrupting, and Dismantling the “Alt-Tech” Streaming
Funding Pipeline. This is what she does all day.

When you look at [her profile at the
university](https://facstaff.elon.edu/msquire/), the first sections look
like the list of hobbies and interests from a middle aged woman on a
dating site. These are not legitimate research areas and none of them
qualify as computer science. An aging actress with a supply of box wine
can do those things. The biggest section of her profile page is the
media section. That’s the point of the position. Her job is to get
attention by validating myths and legends popular on the far-left.

Mx. Squire is probably a nice person, who knows, but she is a good
example of idle hands being the Devil’s workshop. In a better age, she
would be the accounts receivable manager at a mid-sized company. Maybe
an office manager with an associate’s degree in accounting. Because we
have an excess of middling people, especially women, make-work is
created for them in government, the academy, the media and the private
sector. The Devil is spoiled for choice.

To make matters worse, this army of idle hands now has access to the
rest of through mass media. Someone with the ridiculous title “data
scientist” can inflict themselves on the rest of us by adding authority
to other worthless people engaged in busy work that reinforces current
fads. If the internet was shutdown tomorrow, millions would be thrown
out of work, but the overwhelming majority of those people are now doing
work that is either pointless or harmful to the well-being of society.

In an even better age, when women performed the role for which they
evolved, this natural desire to nose around in the business of others
would be put to use in maintaining the social capital of the community.
Instead of studying “on-line extremism” our oversupply of data
scientists would be supervising the children in their community and
working with other women to maintain cultural norms. Instead, our
oversupply of childless, middle-aged women is a plague upon society.

It is popular to forecast how automation will change society, but we
have a pretty good idea about that now. Instead of a world of Eloi
overindulging in recreation and pointless leisure activities, while the
robots tend to our needs, the robot future will be waves of credentialed
scolds lecturing everyone about nonsensical moral codes. Everywhere you
turn will be a data scientist lecturing you about your speech. Instead
of a world without work, it will be a world of idle hands doing the
Devil’s work.

**Media Note:** I will be on tonight with
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-Pa5w_YWKYQPq-9Haak9gg"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Paul Gottfried and Joseph
Cotto</a> to celebrate the life of Ruth Buzzy Ginsberg and talk about
the supreme court stuff. They are trying to drive up their YouTube
subscriptions, so if you like the show please hit the subscribe button
today. The more they get the subbed the higher they turn up in search
results and other stuff that is important to YouTubers. Once there is a
live link for the show I’ll post it here, Gab and on my Telegram.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston,
titanium wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering
readers a fifteen percent discount. With the holidays around the corner,
you may be looking for a gift for the right-wing person in your life. If
you click
on <a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>, you
get a fifteen percent discount on purchases. I know nothing about
jewelry, but I have to say their stuff looks pretty cool. I’m a plain
guy, so the subtlety of their designs appeals to my aesthetic.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">
If you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Vn9JPoQoN8N59+lB34Gqug==cb7SO8x5FXsmbTiEwkZ+j89An3Cz3bE3XFUwKWHfQQjyqq3cgHhEvA5EH3qwRbYULyL"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="u2cThyVjj6ryOVIZJTxtNw==cb7SIpPO/pgCXCTJT7sts07h1D+ei/AWQ3hoG9qusk49U8s4opWOZ958xFlilN6geaY"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>
.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!
