---
title: "The Logic Of Political Violence"
date: "2020-07-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-07-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20892"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20892"
---

Back in the Cold War, one of the things Americans would puzzle over was
the political violence behind the Iron Curtain. Most Americans assumed
they would resist the state terrorism they heard about from the media.
Of course, they assumed such a thing could never happen in America.
Today we are seeing just how easily state sponsored terrorism can get
going in any country. The reason is there is a political logic to murder
that comes as a part of ideological movements.

The logic of political violence is best understood by considering the
way Progressives frame their anti-speech pogroms. They keep equaling
words and ideas that vex them with violence. For example, someone
posting crime statistics on Twitter is accused of posting violent
content or inciting violence. At the same time, BLM burning shops and
murdering young white mothers is pure political expression. Language
they don’t like is violence and violence they like is free expression.

All acts, speaking or physical activity, are judged in purely partisan
terms. That person murdering white mothers on behalf of the Progressive
cause is morally good by default, as he is sustaining and advancing the
interests of the cause. Similarly, the person who stops laughing too
soon at an official joke is consciously or unconsciously working against
the interest of the cause. He’s a threat. In other words, all actions
are judged only in partisan terms, not in relative terms.

Further, making total war on anyone acting against the cause, even by
mild simple disagreement, is a form of self-defense to the partisan. The
logic here is that someone saying something that contradicts the beliefs
of the Progressive cause must be at war with the partisans of the cause.
After all, what makes the partisan a partisan is his fidelity to his
cause. To invalidate the cause, even by questioning it, is to invalidate
him and therefore, striking at the bad speaker is self-defense.

Again, you see this in their language. Before the lock downs, colleges
had already implemented a policy of “safe spaces” on campus. These were
places where Progressive activists could be totally free of criticism or
questioning. The post-modern partisan equates physical safety, not only
with the lack of disagreement from outsiders, but the absence of anyone
and anything that contradicts the cause. They demand to be insulated
from physical reality, as well as contrary opinion.

This conflation of people with ideology into partisanship is why
Progressives have always had a somewhat comical obsession with the
backlash. A Muslim shoots up a gay club, for example, and the
Progressive media writes stories about how Muslims fear a backlash from
red necks and Christians. They just assume the Muslim was right for
acting on behalf of his cause. Further, they just assumed his enemies,
even though they are imaginary, will do the same.

The conflation of the ideologue and the ideology must lead to either
political violence or political separation. The partisan looks around
and sees nothing but enemies, people holding opinions that contradict
the cause. Further, he sees them operating in a system that contradicts
the beliefs of the partisan. Hence the concept of systemic racism that
is popular with Progressives. They are surrounded by people and a system
that is at war with the very essence of who they are.

There can be only two responses, fight or flight. Once the partisan has
power, though, the only logical response is fight. Once they gain power,
they are not just defending themselves, but now they imagine they are
defending society as a whole. Rounding up dissidents and having them
executed is not just vindictive cruelty, although there is a lot of
that, for sure. To the partisan mind this is an act of self-defense. The
bad-speaker is at war with the cause and all is fair in war.

Inevitably, this logic is confirmed by the piecemeal response to the
political violence unleashed on the public. Someone realizes that the
people in charge are willing to use violence and he or they respond with
violence. This small act becomes the bloody shirt the partisans then
wave around as justification. Notice how the Progressives still mention
Charlottesville as a justification for their pogroms against anyone
expressing unapproved opinions on social media.

It is tempting to dismiss these people as insane, but their logic, with
regards to the use of political violence, is natural. After all, the
death penalty is rooted in the same logic of societal self-defense. The
murderer who can never be allowed loose must be killed, not as
punishment, but so he can never kill again. There is a blood sacrifice
to it, as Joseph de Maistre explained, but the fundamental logic of the
death penalty is rooted in the most basic instinct of man –
self-defense.

This is why America is probably closer to Soviet-style show trials and
political violence than most Americans realize. Most people are not
partisans or their partisanship is mostly ornamental. They wave it
around when politics comes up, but it usually works to cut-off political
arguments before they get started. Many Americans, probably a majority,
are still trapped in the old political framework. Worse still, the
so-called Right still thinks we live in a rule-based republic.

It is important to note that the Russians never saw Stalin coming
either. Some suspected what he was, but most did not. The political
violence of Stalin crept up on his fellow partisans on little cat feet.
Before they could understand what was happening, he was having them
packed off to gulags. The ultra-violence of the French Revolution
similarly crept up on the radicals. The great blood sacrifice of radical
political ideology is always the destination no one sees coming until it
is too late.

**Note:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent
discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is like a
tea, but it has a milder flavor. It’s hot here in Lagos, so I’ve been
drinking it cold. It is a great summer beverage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
