---
title: "The Paradox Of Democracy"
date: "2020-05-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-05-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20591"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20591"
---

The great paradox of democracy is that the system is supposed to break
the chains that bind the citizen to the state, but instead it immerses
the citizen in the state. If you go back 200 years in any country in the
West, you would find that the people had very few dealings with the
national government. They had dealings with local government, but even
that was minimal. Politics, even in Britain and America where popular
government was established, played a minor role in the lives of
citizens.

Today, in supposedly free countries, no one can be free of politics.
Everywhere you go, politics plays a part in your life. Political
correctness governs the workplace and the academy. If you fall behind in
the latest trends in pronouns, you could end up in a struggle session
with the human resource people. Entertainment is saturated with
multiculturalism and the lectures that come with it. It is nearly
impossible to live in a modern western democracy without politics.

One reason for this is the natural logic of democracy. The proper way to
run society, according to democracy, is for the people to express their
will through a plebiscite or an elected body like a parliament. The good
citizen takes an interest in his society and makes his opinion known
though his vote or through participation in public and private debates
about the issues. The system is intended to encourage the people to get
involved and participate in the political process.

Therefore, someone who does not wish to participate in the democratic
process is, in effect, opposed to democracy. If being a good citizen
means keeping up with politics and participating in the process, not
doing those things means you are something less than a good citizen,
maybe even a bad citizen. This logic not only works on the laggards, but
it encourages everyone to be a scold. The person trying to avoid
politics will be a target by the champions of democracy.

Of course, one goal of democracy is to get people to cooperate with one
another in order to set public policy and shape society. Rather than one
guy dictating the rules or a group of powerful people making law, the
people come together and find some compromise that suits the most amount
of people. A point of democracy is to allow the losers to accept defeat,
as they get something in the compromise and they have a chance to win
the next time. Democracy is about compromise.

Compromise has an important meaning in democracy. It is not a grudging
compromise or simply a truce to the fight. The point of the compromise
is to reach a consensus on the issue at hand. This general agreement
comes about by the parties working together to find a solution to which
they can all agree. Compromise in a democracy is not a hostile
agreement, like that between warring parties, but a friendly agreement
struck between partners. Compromise is cooperation in a democracy.

This naturally leads to the conclusion that those who are not
participating in politics are possibly excluded in some way. Simply
eliminating the explicit rules against participation like limits on the
franchise are just a start. Until everyone participates fully, it is
assumed something is excluding them. This is the source of things like
“voter suppression efforts” and “exclusionary practices” in the
workplace. If anyone is not fully engaged and represented, then
something is preventing them.

This is the root of speech and behavior laws. Speech that mocks or
minimizes some group makes them feel unwelcome. This could lead they to
avoid participation or encourage others to block their way. Similarly,
rules or customs that exclude people must only exist to exclude and are
therefore anti-democratic. It’s why any humor based on observing human
behavior is forbidden. It is why noticing difference in people is now
the worse crime. To differentiate is to exclude.

Inevitably, it means the system does not just pick the low hanging fruit
of exclusion like laws that discriminate or banning exclusionary speech.
Unless and until everyone is participating and getting along with
everyone else, the cause of discord and exclusion must be sought out by
the system itself. What we see today is democracy has become an endless
struggle session for society. We collectively hunt for anything that
offends or discourages cooperation among citizens.

This leads to another strange paradox. Once the hunt for the cause of
less than perfect social cohesion starts, it must invade every aspect of
life. The speech laws lead to theories about the thoughts behind the
forbidden speech. Private association must expose itself to endless
examination in order to make sure it is not excluding anyone or creating
tensions between groups. In short order, as we see in America since the
Cold War, the citizen exists only as a thoroughly political animal.

Not to put too fine a point on it, but the spirit of democracy is why
social media companies hunt down dissenters. These people posting mean
things on-line cannot be ignored, because there very existence,
according to the logic of democracy, is to crate conflict and undermine
cooperation. In a way, the platform becomes a metaphor for society as a
whole. The army of volunteer speech monitors are fully actualizing their
freedom in the democratic system by driving out the anti-democratic
elements.

This immersion of citizens in a political environment eliminates the
private institutions and associations that were supposed to be the
bedrock of democracy. If private association is exclusionary, then
private institutions are as well. Since anything that obstructs perfect
cooperation is anti-democratic, democracy means the elimination of the
very institutions that are supposed to make it possible. Democracy now
looks a lot like Soviet communism, where the party was everything.

Another paradox is that democracy is supposed to rely on the independent
citizen being able to assess his own interests. By eliminating private
associations and institutions, the citizen naturally becomes dependent
on the state. If you cannot belong to a club or an organic group, your
only option for social support is family, but that too is under endless
assault by democracy. Feminism, after all, is the elimination of
womanhood as an independent role. As feminism grows, family formation
falls.

With communism, the goal upfront is a society without social conflict.
The communist seeks to flatten the natural hierarchy of society. By
destroying class and the distinctions among citizens, all citizens are
equal. Equality of existence means an equality of purpose, so everyone
naturally cooperates. The ideology itself is shot through with the
understanding that the communist is a purely political animal, as he is
defined by the fact that he is a communist man in a communist society.

In democracy, the declaration is the opposite. Democracy is supposed to
make men free to enjoy their lives as they see fit, exercise their
liberty and pursue the ends that bring them happiness. In theory,
citizens are free to participate in the system or they can choose to opt
out of the system. In reality, it is impossible to exist in a democratic
system without also being a citizen. To be a citizen, you have to fully
participate in the process and that means fully cooperate will all
fellow citizens.

That’s the great paradox of democracy. A system advertised to offer
maximum liberty turns out to be a system that offers no freedom. The
logic of democracy requires all members to cooperate with one another.
That inevitably requires constraints on speech, behavior and
association. Every word and deed must foster cooperation or it is
anti-democratic and therefore forbidden. The full range of action by
citizens is constrained to the point where the democratic man is a
prisoner.

**Note:** I’m still working on the comment system issue. It should be
resolved shortly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
