---
title: "The Fanatic’s Ball"
date: "2020-11-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-11-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=21836"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=21836"
---

**Note:** I have <a
href="https://www.takimag.com/article/keeping-the-civic-religion-afloat/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a post</a> up on Taki about
the end of liberal democracy. As according to the new normal, I have
posts up behind <a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the green door</a> on popular
culture.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The great British evolutionary biologist, J. B. S. Haldane, famously
said that fanaticism is man’s greatest invention. The obsessive,
uncritical belief in an idea or cause is the opposite of the
sober-minded and rational. The fanatic is intolerant of anything that
contradicts his views, while the rational man is willing to update or
even abandon his views when presented contradictory information. The
fanatic sees only that which confirms his fanaticism and refuses to
yield in his opinions.

The fanatic, of course, has been in the middle of every man-made social
disaster since the French Revolution. It was fanatics who brought on the
Reign of Terror and it was fanatics who brought on The Great Terror.
Fanatics let loose by Mao in the Cultural Revolution terrorized the
Chinese population. Man’s greatest invention turns out to be man’s most
terrible invention. Once it is let loose, it is not easily put back on
the leash, at least not until it runs out of things to smash.

This year has seen the fanatic set free to run wild in our streets. They
were deliberately agitated and let loose by the petty men of the ruling
class, frustrated that the people’s champion had not been vanquished.
It’s hard for modern people to understand how the French radicals, for
example, could have killed so many in the name of the revolution, but
current events make this much easier to comprehend, even if we have not
reached the bloodbath stage yet.

The thing is, fanaticism is not a well-defined group of people held in
reserve and then deployed when needed. It’s more like a spiritual force
that sweeps through a population, afflicting the weak minded and those
desperate for a purpose. We see this with the election shenanigans. The
desire to be part of the great fight against the bad man and his minions
caused hundreds, maybe thousands to follow their fanatical rage and
engage in thousands of acts of election fraud.

That is what is coming into focus as various parties look into what
happened and whistle blowers step forward. The image that is emerging is
of an orgy of corruption where the participants are free of any moral
restraint. They were not working from a plan, but a belief that they
were on the side of angels and therefore free to use any means necessary
to help the cause. They were the righteous engaged in the great war
against the wicked, unleashed by the ruling class.

The defenders of Trump will work hard to make it sound like a
wide-ranging conspiracy, but that’s just how mass media culture works.
Facts and observations cannot be presented as is. They have to be part
of a narrative with a well-defined protagonist and an easy to hate
villain. In reality, there is no grand conspiracy at work. The people
involved in the election rigging are true believers. They believe what
they are doing is for a just cause and they cannot see the corruption in
it.

Fanatics in numbers are a lot like a flock of birds of a school of fish.
They instinctively coordinate their efforts without needing to be told.
Like fireflies at dusk, they are constantly signaling one another, which
intensifies their fanaticism, making them more sensitive to the
movements of the group. The people at the top cheered the fanatics in
the streets, excused their behavior and reminded them that the evil
Trump must be stopped by any means necessary. They were on a holy
mission.

The thing is though, what motivates those unleashing the fanatics on the
population also motivates the fanatic. That is a search for purpose.
These are people who wish to be part of something bigger than
themselves, but they lack the skill and ability to create anything but
mayhem. This manifests as the smashing of whatever they see in their
way, which can be anything. It is why they eventually turn on one
another, because at some point they run out of things to smash.

That’s what makes this such a dangerous time. The petty and stupid
people surrounding the corpse of Joe Biden are not going to be satisfied
with expelling Trump from Washington. They will want vengeance. Part of
that will be swinging wildly in what they perceive to be the opposite
direction out of spite. It’s not hard to imagine them unleashing a Camp
of the Saints event, for example, by reversing Trump’s immigration rules
and inviting the world to their celebration.

It’s not that the people around the Pretender Biden want millions
rushing the border in the hope of getting a promised amnesty. They are
too stupid and short-sighted to think that far ahead. It’s that they
will want the quick rush of smashing those rules and gloating over their
work. Like the fanatics cheering the executioner holding up the head of
his victim, they will simply be looking for the thrill of seeing their
enemies, real and imagined, facing their holy wrath.

What the past tells us about times of terror is the fanatics are never
satisfied with the blood of a few enemies of the revolution. The sight
of the enemies blood just makes them hungry for more. There may be some
in the ruling class sensing that they must first put their fanatics back
on the leash, but most of too dull and self-loathing to grasp what they
have unleashed. There is a good chance that the summer riots were just a
taste of what lies ahead in the woke revolution.

It is tempting to assume that this revolution will eat itself, but that
is not the pattern people think they see in the history book. People
point to Robespierre as the example, but he seems more like an
exception. Stalin’s terror campaign ended when Stalin died of natural
causes. The Cultural Revolution ended when Mao died. Pol Pot lived to
old age and according to his own words, died with a clear conscience.
Perhaps this time will be an exception, but that is never the way to
bet.

**Promotions:** The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten
percent discount to readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="3yyIm8JzgRLBeMI8qAg7ig==cb7vMxjYrCIZS+3TO+G4/Q6lxMcOAeOFF+isREnAUplgMeA8gchNrFJcGZNXQihjtuz"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="vEOf2gBjuKdVxwKKYLfVEg==cb7v4tJ44sTi8hbOZ0bpJaC50qwS41Xxum5j3ZfAcbtqewKfDqTJQBdqqwbMy5x79cc"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
