---
title: "Binary Thinking"
date: "2020-04-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-04-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20282"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20282"
---

In the movie *The Usual Suspects*, the wily main character utters one of
the most memorable movies lines in recent times. “The greatest trick the
Devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn’t exist.” The line is
allegedly lifted from the 19th century French poet Charles Baudelaire.
According to the
<a href="https://quoteinvestigator.com/2018/03/20/devil/"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Quote Investigator</a>,
versions of the line have been used by Christian ministers before
Baudelaire. That seems plausible, given the inclinations of reformist
Christian ministers.

Something similar can be said for radicalism. Perhaps its greatest trick
is to convince the world they did not win and rule the West for the last
century and a half. Instead, the radicals go from triumph to triumph,
convincing their adherents that the fight must go on, as well as
convincing their opponents to fight future battles in a way that is
guaranteed to result in their defeat. It really is a remarkable thing,
when you stop and think about the past century or so of political
conflict.

One trick the Left has used is to alter the shared consciousness in such
a way that everyone is a binary thinker. That is, every issue, not
matter how trivial, is assumed to be one thing or the other. Whatever
the issue, there are only two options, so if one is made invalid, the
other is the right answer by default. Therefore, everyone participating
in political discourse is forced to defend one side or the other.
Further, they think they advance their side by discrediting the other
side.

The classic example of this was the homosexual marriage debate. Before
anyone knew what was happening, the beautiful people were insisting that
anyone opposed to the idea must hate homosexuals. In fact, anyone not
embracing everything about the homosexual lifestyle must be a
hate-filled bigot. This binary thinking has now extended to men dressed
as women. The only options for the debate were one extreme position or
the other, which obviously worked to the advantage of the Left.

Another example is the current debate over the pandemic lock downs. The
alarmists insist that the choices are lock everyone in their homes until
there are no more sick people or allow people to die in the streets from
the virus. Most people have happily accepted this framing, so that
anyone questioning the lock down is viewed as a dangerous nut. The idea
of a third or fourth position is no longer possible, as those are lumped
into one extreme or the other by the two sides.

Yet another example is one that has turned up in fringe politics. Those
opposed to the current economic order are cheering the lock down, as
they assume it must be bad for those they blame for the current economic
order. This urge to harm their perceived enemies is so intense, they
seem willing to harm themselves and their friends in an economic
collapse, if it harms the bad guys. Any questioning of this is
characterized as a defense of the current order, possibly even a
betrayal.

Probably the clearest example of this binary way of thinking is
something you see from the intelligent design people. They assume if
they can discredit evolutionary biology, their preferred explanation of
life must be true. They make no effort to prove their claims about a
great designer. They just assume that if they discredit the alternative,
they must be proven correct by default. It is why they invest all of
their time and energy into attacking evolutionary biology. Theirs is an
either-or worldview.

There’s almost always a strong moral component to binary thinking. Side
A looks at Side B as immoral, perhaps evil. We see this now with the
lock down. Those questioning the policy are accused of being indifferent
to their fellow humans or even putting lives at risk with their crazy
ideas about going outside. The same moral signaling was at play with the
homosexual marriage debate. In the binary worldview, there are only good
guys and bad guys, black hats and white hats.

This hyper-moralized binary thinking can have some bizarre results. The
Left is endlessly mewing about the danger of right-wing
authoritarianism, but cheers what can only be described as
authoritarianism during the lockout. Right-wing opponents of
cosmopolitan globalism are now embracing left-wing schemes to crash the
system, like rent strikes and overloading the welfare system. The
so-called hard-right now sounds like a bunch of leisure suit wearing
Progressives from the 1970’s.

The reason for this is the hyper-moralized world of binary thinking must
necessarily be detached from anything resembling fixed truth. If all
that matters is opposing the bad guy, then the only truth that matters
is they are wrong and therefore the opposite of what they say is the
truth. In a world of binary thinking, everyone is defined by who they
hate and what they oppose, not by objective truth. In the great dance
with the Devil, he leads by simply existing in the mind of his partner.

That is the great trick of the radicals. By convincing the world that
politics is a constant struggle against some enemy, the corrective of
factual reality has been abandoned in favor of binary logic. Since
radicalism itself is rooted in the endless revolution against something,
societies in a constant struggle to find some new devil to oppose must
always embrace radicalism. The very identity of a radical society is
rooted in the constant struggle to move past some evil onto the next.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
