---
title: "The Morality Of The Madhouse"
date: "2020-06-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2020-06-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=20717"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=20717"
---

In *The Spirit of the Laws*, Montesquieu outlined the motivations that
drove citizen behavior in the three types of political systems known at
the time. In republican forms of government, love of virtue is what
motivates the people. In monarchies, it is the love of honor that
motivates the actions of the people. In despotism, the people are
motivated by fear of the ruler. He argued that the political system must
match the inclinations of the people or it would not last.

Although Montesquieu did not address it, it certainly seems that these
principles have a hierarchy of their own. Honor, for example, will give
way to virtue, once the people begin to think they have a choice.
Throughout history, monarchy has given way to democratic rule as the
people abandoned honor in favor of virtue. Similarly, virtue has never
been much of a match for fear as a motivator. Authoritarianism, the soft
or hard variety, tends to overcome public virtue once the rulers realize
it.

Montesquieu was working with the materiel at hand, so he could not
contemplate the nature of liberal democracy. He knew of democracy, but
only in the limited experiments among the ancients. Democracy on the
grand scale as we see today was beyond the realm of plausible at the
time. Similarly, liberalism was in its infancy. Liberty, consent of the
governed and equality before the law were purely theoretical concepts at
the time, so he and other theorists had no working knowledge of them.

Almost three centuries on, we have a much better sense of what
liberalism and democracy produce. For several generations now, the West
has been ruled by the ideology of liberal democracy. Further, the West
has worked hard to impose this moral philosophy on the rest of the
world. Trillions have been spent, for example, trying to plant the seeds
of liberal democracy in the Muslim world. South America has been forced
to embrace the rituals and ceremonies of liberal democracy.

What we can now see that Montesquieu would not have been able to see is
that something unique motivates the citizen in a liberal democracy.
 There is no willingness to put the interests of the community ahead of
private interests. There is no desire to attain greater rank and
privilege. There is fear, but not of a ruler, but rather fear of falling
afoul of the general will. The collective morality in a liberal
democracy works like an invisible fickle tyrant that terrorizes the
citizenry.

We see this in the current turmoil. The citizen is now suddenly faced
with a whole new moral order, as if the ruling class all converted to
some new church. People who are slow to pick up on the morality are
shamed and harassed. You can lose your job for refusing to use the right
pronouns, for example. Two members of the Supreme Court just converted
and declared that the Founders were actually sodomites in dresses,
therefore sodomites in dresses are sacred beings.

Just as fear of the tyrant is a more powerful motivation than a sense of
sacrifice to the needs of the community, morality is a much more
powerful motivator than virtue or even fear of a powerful individual.
Look at Donald Trump. He is incompetent, for sure, but his office has
real power. Yet, fear of falling afoul of the new morality leads the
converted to risk everything to destroy him. The needs of the new
morality are pushing the followers to bring the country crashing down to
please the new gods.

Unlike the motivations behind monarchy, republicanism and tyranny, there
is no structure to liberal democratic morality. There is no sacred text
or body of philosophical work to provide authority. Like a school of
fish, morality shifts on a dime and that new direction is assumed to be
the general will and therefore the proper course. Morality in a liberal
democracy is a riot with no real purpose, other than to feed the need of
the people to feel they are the virtuous actor in the great drama of
life.

Without a controlling doctrine, morality in a liberal democracy has no
limiting principles to contain the excesses. Everything worth doing is
worth overdoing. No matter how pious someone is, someone else can be
more pious. Each new fad becomes a race to the absurd, which is how we
quickly went from tolerance of homosexuals to declaring transvestites
sacred beings. You can be sure the pedophiles and polygamists are
getting ready for their elevation into the ring of honor.

It turns out that fear, virtue and honor are no match for morality in
the great battle of organizing ideas. Honor is an individual
characteristic. It is something you give yourself through your own
decisions. Similarly, the virtue of the man willing to sacrifice for the
good of the institution is largely an individual creation. It has a
collective component, which makes it more powerful than honor, but it is
still individualistic. Fear, of course, is about saving your own skin or
that of your family.

Morality, in contrast, pivots on the collective sense of identity. The
chants of “who we are” resonate because it implies a choice. You can be
inside where it is good or outside where it is bad. In reality, it
reminds the people that they have no choice. To stand against morality
is to stand against destiny itself. Those who resist the new morality
are first anathematized then invisibilized. Liberal democracy maintains
an invisible gulag for those who refuse to bend the knee to the
prevailing morality.

The defects in monarchy, democracy and despotism are well known. The
next in line to the throne can be a lunatic or a simpleton. Democracy
eventually murders itself. The tyrant eventually dies, leaving a battle
for power. It seems that the defect of liberal democracy is that it has
no way to control the fanatic. They are not just allowed to run free,
but they are encouraged to fully explore their fanaticism. Liberal
democracy eventually becomes a madhouse run by madmen.

Modern America has entered the madhouse phase of liberal democracy. Just
how far along we are in the journey is unknown, but the journey has
begun. Evidence of this is the wanton destruction of civil society. The
pointlessness of it is the point. No one in power is willing to defend
the institutions and customs that defined old America. No one in power
is offering an alternative, other than more fear of the mob. The only
questions now are the timing and terror of the eventual collapse.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte at Starbucks. Thank you for your
support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
