---
title: "Lessons From Collapse"
date: "2021-10-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-10-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=25363"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=25363"
---

When the Soviet Union collapsed, it did not descend into chaos or have a
long period where no one was in charge. It was a process that began with
the power struggle between Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin. This
power struggle undermined the power of the party and eventually the
government. Into the void flowed a new source of power and authority,
the oligarchs. These were men with control of key assets who backed
Yeltsin’s privatization plans for the economy.

Those oligarchs did not spring from nothing. Some were key party figures
who had controlled aspects of the Soviet economy, but most were
privateers who operated in the shadow economy of the Soviet system. They
held posts in the Soviet system but had extensive contacts in the
criminal underground. As the power of the state declined, the power of
the underwound economy grew. When the system collapsed, they became the
power centers providing control of the country.

This was not unique to the Soviet system. Whenever power begins to wane,
alternative centers of power begin to flourish. There is a period in
which the real power exists in these distributed power centers, but the
façade of the old system remains. Collapse is merely the formal
recognition of reality. Germany in the interwar years is another example
of what happens when there is a power vacuum. The fascists did not
spring from nothing. They had roots in German history and culture.

The Western Roman Empire is probably the best example of the process of
collapse and what follows. For a long time, the empire was mostly a
fiction. The daily life of the people was controlled by the local
powers, the large landowners. These local authorities had power through
ownership of land and authority through the administration of the law
and regulation of local economics. They even supplied local security in
addition to providing men to fight in the legions.

The latifundia was what we would think of today as a plantation. It was
the closest thing to agribusiness in the ancient world. It was a large
parcel of land worked by slaves for the purpose of export. By the late
stages of the empire, these enterprises were common throughout the
empire. After the empire, they became the basis of what we understand to
be feudalism. The slaves became peasants, and the landowners became the
feudal lords controlling the administration of Western Europe.

There was a lot more going on at the end of the Western Roman Empire,
but a critical and necessary element was the rise of distributed power
centers. Like the ethnic gangsters in the Soviet Union, these
agricultural enterprises initially filled in the gaps of the system to
keep it functioning. In time they began to rival the power of the empire
and when the empire collapsed, they filled the void left behind. The
resulting system was built around those local centers of power.

Just as there is a point at which a number of grains of sand becomes a
pile of sand, there is a point where the decentralized power centers go
from subservient to the central authority to rivaling the central
authority. There is a paradox at work in that we can know this point
exists but can never identify it with certainty. How many grains of sand
constitutes a pile? At what point do people look first to the oligarch
for leadership rather than the central authority?

It is a useful question to consider, because there was a point of no
return in the Soviet Union just as there was in the Western Roman
Empire. Many of those oligarchs in Russia were just the guys who noticed
it first.
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mikhail_Fridman" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Mikhail Fridman</a> was active in the underground
economy in the later years of the Soviet Union and quickly moved to the
newly privatized economy as soon as it was possible. Like most of the
oligarchs, he was an early adopter who saw the writing on the wall.

In other words, the men who would eventually become the oligarchs after
the fall of communism were the first to see that the old system was
doomed and something else was coming to replace it. They did not know or
care what was coming. They just wanted to profit from the chaos. In
fact, when the opportunity arose, they promoted the chaos, backing
Yeltsin over Gorbachev because it was good for business. They profited
from the collapse before anyone saw the collapse coming.

In current year America, this is relevant because it suggests that the
American empire has been in collapse for a long time know. The rise of
the financial oligarchs in the late-1980’s and 1990’s was one sign. The
rise of Silicon Valley oligarchs as a rival power center to Washington
is another. The assault on small business and the middle class by the
combined power of the oligarchs and the political class is analogous to
the late years of the Soviet system.

In other words, the American empire may already be in collapse. The
geezers in Washington are allowed to pretend they are in charge as it
benefits the oligarchs, but they have no real power. Legislation is
written by the army of scribes known as lobbyists and think tanks,
underwritten by the oligarchs. Elections are determined by the money and
media supplied by those same oligarchs. The real power lies in
boardrooms and villas, while the political system is just a show.

The Soviet and Roman examples suggest such arrangements never last as
reality eventually forces its way to the front. In Russia, the oligarchs
were brought to heel by the one universal source of power. Vladimir
Putin, with the support of the intelligence community and the military
was able to reassert civil control of Russia. The oligarchs still exist,
but enough have been killed, exiled, or jailed to make sure the rest
know who wields the real power in the country.

This is the other shoe to drop in the American empire. The intelligence
services have real power, as we saw with the FBI efforts to overturn the
2016 election. The military has real power but lacks real leadership.
Their willingness and ability to thwart Trump’s efforts to get out of
Syria and Afghanistan should be of concern. Somewhere in the officer
ranks there is a man with the skill and desire to change the
relationship between the military and the decaying civil control.

Historical analogies are never perfect and are useful only in comparing
the broad outlines of times and places. A smooth landing for the empire
is not guaranteed any more than Caesarism is a certainty. The military
could blunder the empire into a war it cannot win and destroy its
credibility in the process. A financial collapse could lead to a popular
revolt against the oligarchs. Of course, there is the looming
demographic crisis that will bring unimaginable social upheaval.

Even so, what history is telling us is that the American empire is well
past the point where reform is possible. It is past the point where the
decaying system of imperial control can expect to outlive its current
operators. The system is on life support and powerful interests are
evolving in response to this reality. The collapse is now certain, but
the timing is what is unknown. Another lesson of history here is that no
one saw the Soviet collapse coming. The end is always a surprise.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="T1BGnkGbPpjYNAPsihKn/A==cb7i4bxxM/QZgLQbL227TqsWzIbbjB4JDlRi2HoQ+IptzvWlHY7xHfNqFP2Muw2uyw8"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="MxLp3Apxf4SxC9ZdHclekQ==cb7KC5wdGWTHNGdJQBXGRLz5a49mdIFpX0qB/OztVyQmzpo4RfvK0O0Jlc+ZJ/sF+rd"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
