---
title: "Money Talk"
date: "2021-01-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-01-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22451"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22451"
---

The magical fairy dust known as Bitcoin is back in the news as its price
has soared to a record high in the last few weeks. Currently one bitcoin
is worth 35,000 USD, which is close to double its value of a month ago.
If last spring, when the Covid panic hit, you decided to get into
Bitcoin, thinking it was a safe haven for your money, your return would
now sit at 700%. Of course, if you were an early adopter when the price
was a few hundred dollars, then you are now quite rich.

Of course, whenever Bitcoin is on the rise, the paladins of
cryptocurrency are out evangelizing about the glorious future where
currency is no longer controlled by those evil bankers rubbing their
hands in their secret lair. Karl Thorburn has been making the rounds on
this side of the great divide. [Here is a
podcast](https://counter-currents.com/2021/01/counter-currents-radio-310-karl-thorburn/)
he did with Greg Johnson last week that is worth a listen. Bitcoin is
popular among dissidents, because the bankers cannot get you
deplatformed from it like they do with credit cards.

One problem with Bitcoin is right there in those huge gains. There are
wild swings in its value as people rush in and out of it. Three years
ago, Bitcoin had a similar surge then lost half its value over the next
six months. A similar boom and bust happened the following year. As a
means of exchange, it suffers from the same problem that all commodities
suffer. That is, it tends to increase in value over time, but it also
suffers from the cyclical tendency we see in these booms and busts.

One reason for this is that all cryptocurrencies are designed around a
math problem that gets exponentially harder to solve as time goes on.
Put another way, each new coin costs more to produce than the previous
coin. If the first coin cost X, the next coin costs x+n with n being the
slight increase in cost to produce it. If the first ten coins average
out to 10 USD and the next ten are 20 USD, then the average value of
each coin has gone up by 50% just by the mere fact of their creation.

Demand for Bitcoin, however, has tendencies that do not always
correspond with the supply of Bitcoins. That explains the cyclicality.
For reasons that have nothing to do with the inherent value of Bitcoin,
demand rises, so the price rises with it. At some point, people with
Bitcoin begin to cash in and the price starts to fall, leading to a rush
for the exit as we see with any asset bubble. Like hard money, Bitcoin
has cyclical tendencies that get increasingly wild over time.

The other problem with Bitcoin, in terms of it replacing dollars or
euros as a currency is that it is not actually money. It can be used as
a medium of exchange, but only because governments tolerate it for now.
Otherwise, it lacks the key attribute that has defined money since the
Phrygians started producing coins. It lacks the backing of a sovereign
who will enforce its value. Legal tender is an item that must be
accepted as payment and that is enforced by a government with a monopoly
of force.

Now, this does not mean that things like gold or precious stones cannot
be used in exchange, but they are not legal tender unless the government
of the jurisdiction where the exchange occurs agrees to it. In the
United States, for example, it is illegal to demand payment in gold. The
legal tender of the United States is those bits of metal and paper we
carry around with us. A check or credit card is just involving a
third-party (the bank) to pay the merchant in dollars.

Now the crypto-evangelists always respond to this point by saying that
governments can’t do anything about cryptocurrencies. That’s the beauty
of them. Because their creation is independent of government and their
value is set in the marketplace, the state cannot prevent people from
using Bitcoin. They will also note that Bitcoin is anonymous, so the
state will have a tough time tracing the source of Bitcoin, even if they
try to crack down on its use and possession.

This argument has several problems, one of which should be obvious. The
government can simply arrest people for using Bitcoin and throw them
into prison. If merchants are told it is unlawful to accept Bitcoin,
they stop taking Bitcoin. There is a reason no merchant accepts gold
dust for payment. Not even a pawnshop will accept gold as a form of
payment and most of them trade in raw gold now. One necessary quality of
money is that it be widely accepted for payment.

Governments have a primarily interest in protecting their monopoly on
the supply of legal tender. This goes to something called seigniorage.
This is the profit the sovereign makes from the issuing of money. In the
days of gold coin, the miners of gold brought their bullion to the
king’s mint, where it was turned into coins. The value of the coins was
more than the value of the bullion. This is one way the king could
finance his government, without having to physically control the gold
supply.

In modern times, seigniorage has evolved into something else, namely the
stability of the money supply, especially in relation to other
currencies. A stable money supply makes for stable credit markets. The
standing and legitimacy of a government is determined by the stability
of its currency. This is why central banks have become the most
important institutions on the planet. It is also why the major central
banks will never cede control of the currency to cryptocurrency.

Note that stability does not mean fixed. The supply of money in its
various forms can expand and contract. When the Fed changes interest
rates, they are changing the supply of one or more forms of money. This
is done in concert with the European Central Bank within an agreed upon
structure. This means the supply of money is stable in that it is
predictable. In the Covid crisis, everyone knew the central banks would
aggressively expand the money supply in response.

The response to this is usually something about the immorality of
government manipulating their currencies to finance debt. While true,
the morality of the crypto advocates is not the morality of the people
in charge. Since the people in charge have a monopoly of force, it is
their morality that matters. The golden rule of power is that no one is
ever talked out of retaining power. The United States gives up its
control of the currency when someone more powerful takes it away.

There are other problems with crypto that prevent it from becoming
anything more than a digital tulip bulb. Money, by definition, is
self-verifying. You can examine currency and determine if it is
authentic. Crypto requires a third party to validate the coin. That is
done by examining its provenance. Each use becomes part of the coin’s
validation, so it carries the history of its usage. The argument here is
that government cannot access this, but the threat of prison will easily
solve this problem.

The bottom line is money is about power. A ruler powerful enough to
issue his own coin is powerful enough to enforce its use. The more
powerful the king, the more valuable his coin, even outside his realm.
This has always been true and will remain true. The reason the dollar is
the world’s reserve currency is that the rulers of the American empire
are the most powerful and the most predictable rulers on the planet. The
Euro is the second reserve currency for the same reason.

That said, crypto is not worthless. For dissidents looking to get around
the financial restrictions placed on them by agents of the state, crypto
is a solution. If you are looking to invest in a risky asset, Bitcoin is
a good play. Over time it will keep going up, but in between it will be
a rollercoaster. If you like that action, then crypto is a cheap way to
get it. If you want to anonymously fund a dissident, crypto is also a
good way to give someone money without easily exposing your identity.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ieYCZuUwKUNsJIQlua6tSA==cb7/8lwQbRzZ1qXDoKUuaWSKR+80MYvooim36IhLHVvB2ly6gFyRHodaLM6Wvxrcju4"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="EbC+r9oCsDbKdNb8VVV1mg==cb7CvDaYE0lmO0HEgICZX5pl9+p5AtKASLkTu8U6yrEJB2lxLgnCXpoNRuBOdH7dzp4"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
