---
title: "Revolt In The Synopticon"
date: "2021-02-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-02-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22900"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22900"
---

Revolt in a normal human society is made easier by the fact that
everyone knows who is in charge and the institutions they control. In a
despotism, the name of the despot and his supporters is known. The
institutions they control and their relative power is also well known.
The same is true of a republic when it degrades into oligarchy. Picking
sides comes naturally. In the synopticon, this is not so clear, because
everyone is an agent of the system, a potential threat to anyone
resisting the system.

That is the first thing a political dissident living within the modern
liberal democracy must accept about their condition. Since everyone
operates within a lattice work of interconnected data collection nodes,
the sides are not clear. The people at the top, ostensibly running the
system, rarely act directly. They often appear to be carried along by
the system itself. Groups that form up to reform some aspect of the
system are easily coopted by the system to defend the system from
change.

This is the hardest thing to grasp about any human relations. Half the
population will also seek to assign blame to an individual or group of
individuals. They simply lack the capacity to understand how events,
ideas, and the system in which they operate can come together within a
society. They insist the problem is someone holding office or a group of
people running an institution or party. While not entirely wrong, it is
an antiquated view of the world that make resistance self-defeating.

The simplest way of thinking of this is the modern prison. The guards
rely on cameras, listening devices and other detection systems. They
also rely on snitches in the prison population to tip them off to
trouble. Ideally, the prison system wants every prisoner distrusting
every other prisoner. If they are unable and unwilling to cooperate,
then they are just a collection of rebellious individuals. No matter how
clever one may be, the rest are there to undermine the effort due to
misplaced self-interest.

In a society in which everyone watches everyone, knowingly or otherwise,
and inanimate objects like ATM’s and mobile phones can be turned into
snitches for the system, the people are isolated individuals suspended
in the system. The unaware are happily holding up their mobile devices,
snitching for the system at every event, while the aware are doing the
same, thinking they are fighting the man. This is why the most powerful
people think they are the resistance, fighting populism.

This is the first rule of revolution within the synopticon. The war is
not against people, but against the system itself. The people involved
may be bad actors, but even the people who appear to be good actors, can
be bad actors, because they fail to grasp that they are part of the
system. This is something the cleverer inmates figure out about the
prison system. In order to have any sense of freedom, they continually
throw sand in the gears of the system and encourages others to do the
same.

As a practical matter, this first means disconnecting as much as
possible from the information grid. This is not easy, as it so much of
it is convenient. That mobile device feels necessary, because it is
convenient. Using Apple Pay or a credit card for all purchases is easy.
It is also easy for the authorities to track you down if you show up at
the wrong political event or hang around the wrong people. The people at
the Capitol on January 6 are learning this lesson the hard way.

This is the first step for any political actor. Politics and the normal
aspects of life must be separate spheres, physically and mentally. This
means political events are mobile device free. Communication is through
the densest channel possible. Reading texts is simple for the system.
Reading e-mail is hard. Reading lips through CCTV cameras is impossible,
despite what the movies claim. Never write when you can speak, never
speak when you can nod. That is the way of dissent in the synopticon.

There is another lesson from the criminal world that applies here. The
reformer in the synopticon is always policing his area for nodes of the
system. In the criminal sphere, this means listening devices and
snitches. The smart actor is always testing the people and environment
for security risks. For reformers, this means imposing rules on others
about their interaction with the system. It means developing codes of
conduct to enforce discipline about communications and interaction with
the system.

As a practical matter, this means political resistance starts with
community. Entrance into the community requires increasing levels of
commitment. At the periphery are people who always being evaluated to
see if they can be an asset to the political community and perhaps one
day join it. As they demonstrate their worth and commitment, they are
required to make greater sacrifices for the whole in order to go deeper
into the heart of the community.

In other words, organizing in the synopticon must operate within the
blind spots of the system, which in the digital age means the analog
space. While the system can detect and predict community formation, it
needs the inputs through the compound eye of the system to form the data
set. The invisible rules of a community operating face to face are
outside the vision of the system. The most dangerous thing to the
synopticon is small groups of people meeting in person to form bonds.

Finally, the reformer in the synopticon must embrace the Gerasimov
Doctrine. This is the Russian approach to modern war and politics. The
days of nations facing off across a field in a well-define set-piece
battle are long gone. War and politics have converged in the information
age. Those color revolutions sponsored by American intelligence are good
examples of modern war. The appearance of “little green men” in Crimea
during the American overthrow of the Ukrainian government is another.

Domestically, this means something like systemic sabotage. The more bad
data fed into the system, the less valuable the information it creates.
The less valuable the information to the people relying on it, the less
likely they are to trust it. In the information age, war is an
information war. Jamming the system with bogus data is one front on that
war. Similarly, causing unnecessary responses from the system wastes
resources that could be used elsewhere.

This is why leafletting, for example, is a powerful weapon. It is cheap
for the one side, but expensive for the system. Police departments
running around looking for the person behind a leafletting campaign is a
drain on the system. It also erodes the trust between the people reliant
on the system and the system itself. The same would be true of sit-ins
and candlelight vigils outside the green zone in Washington. It would
turn one weapon of the color revolution against the people wielding it.

Another example of how a multifront war against the compound eye of the
synopticon is the short squeeze ushered in by retail investors. The
people reliant on the system assumed the other side was operating from
predictable motives. When it turned out to be otherwise, they had no
rational response. Suddenly, the financial class has a new front in
their war on the middle-class. Do this a dozen times and the system is a
giant swatting at flies.

This is the essence of the Gerasimov Doctrine. War in the information
age is multidimensional and, irregular and ad-hoc. It is not about
locating the enemy and engaging him in battle. The enemy is all around
in the form of the system. This is particularly true for the reformer.
Revolt in the synopticon is about hacking that system so it becomes
unpredictable and unreliable. This means jamming it with bad data,
depriving it of useful data and overloading it at its weak points.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A new year brings new changes. The same is true for this site as we
adjust to the reality of managerial authoritarianism. That means
*embracing crypto* for when the inevitable happens and the traditional
outlets are closed. Now more than ever it is important to support the
voices that support you.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you prefer other ways of donating, look at
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the donate page</a>. Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<sales@minterandrichterdesigns.com>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
