---
title: "Historical Fiction"
date: "2021-07-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-07-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24378"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24378"
---

“The future is certain; it is only the past that is unpredictable” is an
old Soviet era joke about the party’s habit of rewriting history to
serve the current moment. Like so many things Soviet, it applies well to
the current American regime. Not only do they rewrite the past, but they
also magnify events from the past to make them seem like they just
happened yesterday. They diminish more recent events so they seem
distant. The old communists were amateurs compared to liberal democrats.

The rewriting of history is best done by people who have a certain
historical outlook and a facility for language. It is a unique sort of
sociopathy that allows them to create highly complex models of the past
that are decorated with well-established facts, but are otherwise filled
with distortions and outright fabrications. Erasing a man from a picture
and banning any mention of him still leaves a hole. Rewriting the man’s
history, weaving it into the story of the opponents solves two problems.

You can see how this works in this hysterical
[screed](https://thebulwark.com/what-the-hell-happened-to-the-claremont-institute/)
from the left-wing propaganda site the Bulwark. At this point it is
inaccurate and dishonest to put the neoconservatives on the political
Right. They agree with the establishment Left on everything except some
foreign policy items. They actively make war on the establishment Right.
Of course, they are even more hostile to dissidents, nationalists, and
populist than the most deranged lefty. Neoconservatives have returned
home.

Putting that aside, note the natural way in which the writer builds an
intellectual framework that fits the needs of the moment. Within in that
framework are all of the usual bogeymen that haunt the minds of these
people. We have various internet characters who have tormented them.
There is the Russian conspiracy hoax and the foaming at the mouth Trump
hatred. Of course, Evangelicals are in there. The only thing missing
from the list of bad actors is Tsar Alexander III.

All of this is designed to dirty up the Claremont Institute, which is
the only establishment Right operation to take seriously the crisis of
the present. They operate *American Greatness* and the site *American
Mind*. Of course, they have been willing to look at Trump and the
movement that carried him to office in a serious way. Michael Anton was
one of the first establishment figures to make the case for Trump in
2016. This is why the fevered minds of neoconservatism despise them.

The psychopathic hyperventilating is amusing at a certain level, but it
obscures the really important nugget at the start of the screed. “The
Claremont Institute was founded in 1979 by Peter W. Schramm, Thomas B.
Silver, Christopher Flannery, and Larry P. Arnn, all students of Lincoln
scholar Harry V. Jaffa.” Then just a bit later, “Jaffa’s work on Abraham
Lincoln was groundbreaking, and can be credited for recovering a sense
of Lincoln’s intellectual seriousness.”

It is easy to skip over that as the cult of Lincoln has become a fixture
in both the establishment Left and the establishment Right. Both
left-liberals and right-liberals claim Lincoln as their own. National
Review trots out Lincoln every time the left-liberals are banging them
over the head about race. You see, Lincoln was a Republican, so it means
it was right-liberals who saved America from slavery! They do the same
ridiculous thing with MLK, even though he was a Marxist.

Forgotten is how this cult of Lincoln was created and who created it.
That person is Harry Jaffa, who should go down as history’s greatest
fabulist. He is responsible for what is known as the second founding
thesis. You see, the real founding the country was not with the
Constitution. That is just words on paper to solve practical issues
facing the newly independent colonies. The real founding of the country,
the moral and spiritual founding, was with the Declaration of
Independence.

According to Jaffa, “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all
men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with
certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the
pursuit of Happiness.” is the primal roar of the new people, a new
concept of a people. The Founders wanted America to be a land of
universal equality. That was the ideal they setup for themselves. The
Constitution fell short of that because of the needs of the moment.

The Civil War, however, was not a continuation of a cultural dispute
dating back to the English Civil War or even a war over slavery. It was
the second founding. The old errors and sins of the first founding were
washed away with the blood of millions so America could continue toward
that original ideal. Slavery was abolished and the Constitution was
modified. Those modifications have been used ever since to alter the
country in pursuit of the founding ideal contained in the Declaration.

This is also where we get the proposition nation stuff. “Four score and
seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new
nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the *proposition* that
all men are created equal.” You see, that original rhetorical flourish
was actually a call to create an entirely new type of nation, a
proposition nation based on ideas, rather than people. It is not hard to
see the mischief that has come from the embrace of this rewriting of
history.

In a slightly different context, John Derbyshire noted that some people
have an unnatural skill at creating “elaborate, plausible, and
intellectually very challenging systems that do not, in fact, have any
truth content”. Harry Jaffa and his followers were such men. For that
matter, Strauss falls into this camp as well, but that is a topic for
another day. Because the second founding idea provided the
right-liberals with a fig leaf over the race issue, it has become their
creed.

That does not change the fact that this is nonsense, but like Stalin
rewriting history, it is powerful nonsense. In fact, the current
antiwhite pogroms aimed at extirpating all signs of whiteness are rooted
in this. The advocates justify their cultural genocide on the grounds
that it is part of this process to reconcile America with its long
failure to live up the original idea. Ibram X. Kendi and Robin DiAngelo
are really just modern day manifestations of the Founders, dreaming of a
proposition nation.

At the core, the dissident project is about peeling back the layers of
lies and fabrications like second founding theory. History is a story of
a people and our story has been rewritten by strangers who see us as
enemies. Correcting the record is not just an exercise in trivial
exactitude. It is about re-centering a people on the foundation of their
past so they can once again reach for the stars. If the folks at the
Bulwark want to know “what they hell is happening” there is the answer
in a nutshell.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="l7rMha5jpyKdqHOrW7Gfkg==cb7zFreLNG1f/+lN2TTNIJk+iDtU9Up9SX+j7f128D0xIuCzIRZAZf9dcni7fN3iii6"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="4zb/uOqbtvcA4+4fOa6Uzw==cb7kiZqQ/C8WECfqcSoBQWzyNI+UiDeGQU8NHcAFUcJNeOP8utUD6GP5H0jGriOhbkP"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
