---
title: "The Show Trials"
date: "2021-08-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-08-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24562"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24562"
---

**Note:** The regular
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/narrative-collapse/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Taki post</a> is up. This week it is
another dive back into the Covid pool, with an eye to what is happening
to the official narrative. Behind the green door is another world class
episode of Sunday Thoughts, in addition to a review of *Clarkson’s Farm*
and the detective series *Bosch*.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In authoritarian societies, the people have no real way of knowing what
is happening inside the ruling class. The media is controlled by the
regime, so they are not reporting on what is happening internally.
Instead, they are broadcasting the official truth from the regime or
elements within the regime. Often, regime elements have their own media
platforms through which they speak to other regime elements. This is a
form of signaling to avoid open confrontation between regime elements.

Otherwise, the public is left to guess about what is happening inside
the regime, even when the policy is clear. During the Cold War,
Kremlinologists would study what was happening in Russia to try and
guess what was happening in the party. If someone stopped showing up to
public events, a mountain of narratives would appear building on this
one event. We see this with North Korea today. When one of his uncles is
missing from the team photo, it is assumed he fell out of favor.

In America, this opacity is complicated by the grand delusion of liberal
democracy, which blinds people from the reality of the political
arrangements. The trappings of popular government add another layer to
party rule. It often means that the signals coming from inside are
warped by the pretensions of openness and transparency in party media.
The need to pretend the system is working as advertised means that
decrees must be dressed up as the result of consent.

With that in mind, the ongoing show trial for the January 6th protests
gives an opportunity to do a little regime analysis. Nancy Pelosi has
forced through a series of hearings about the protests, despite nothing
new to reveal. The right-side of the party engineered their way out of
the process. They knew it was a loser for them, so they are now on the
sidelines commenting about it. The left side is forging ahead, with the
first round wrapping up last week.

The term “show trial” has been with us since the 1920’s, but gained wide
currency during Stalin’s purges in the 1930’s. By definition, a show
trial is a public trial in which the judicial authorities have already
determined the guilt of the defendant. The point of the trial is to
serve as a warning to political opponents of the regime, but also to
serve as an expression of power by the dominant elements within the
regime. It is all about violence capital within the ruling class.

From the outside, the show trial looks like a display of absolute power.
After all, the condemned is usually required to confess to crimes that
everyone, including his accusers, know he did not commit. The condemned
is forced to humiliate himself as a way of showing his submission to
power. Similarly, the people administrating the show trial must pretend
to be enthusiastic believers in the proceeding. One element of the show
trial is the manufactured appearance of unity.

In reality, show trials are an indication of conflict within the ruling
regime, where the dominant camp feels the need to display their power.
The point of it is to advertise the violence capital of the side holding
the show trial. The reason Stalin had to kill so many old Bolsheviks was
he needed to establish himself as the most violent member of the party,
the one member willing to kill in order to maintain power. Stalin was
making himself into the most dangerous man in a dangerous world.

The thing with Stalin’s purges and show trials is they were not just
about his rise to one-man rule of the Soviet state. There were real
policy disputes within the party in the 1920’s that are relevant today.
The left side of the party, represented by Trotsky, was the
accelerationist wing. They wanted rapid adoption of socialism. The right
side was the incrementalistic wing, represented by Bukharin. They wanted
socialism to evolve over time with party guidance and motivation.

Initially, Stalin sided with the right. In retrospect he chose this
course because it gave him time to solidify his hold of the party
organization. Stalin was not a theorist or a strategist, but he was an
adept organizer. The slow and steady approach, while not living up to
the ideals of Bolshevism, meant he could stock the growing bureaucracy
with his people. By the late 1920’s when it was clear that the slow
approach was far too slow, Stalin switched sides and embraced the
accelerationist approach.

The party purges and show trials of the 1930’s coincided with what
amounted to a genocide of the Russian peasants. Forced collectivization,
execution squads and mass deportations wiped out close to half the
agricultural output. Confiscation of crops resulted in widescale famine.
It was all part of the revolution from the top in order to turn Russia
into an industrial nation. in that regard, it worked. Manufacturing
soared and whole cities were created to produce industrial goods.

The point here is the show trial is the bit of the iceberg we can see
from outside the ruling regime. The part we don’t see is the party
struggle over how to move forward with their stated agenda. In the age
of Covid, which started with the chants of “build back better”, it is
not unreasonable to see the current show trials in this light. The new
rounds of Covid panic, which are a prelude to an autumn lockdown,
suggest there is a power struggle inside the party as to how best to
force the great reset,

The 18-month campaign against Covid has seen trillions shifted from the
white middle-class to elements of the ruling class. The tech oligopoly
has profited wildly from the massive changes in society in the name of
Covid. Small business has been devastated, much in the same way the
kulaks were crushed by Stalin. On the other hand, similar to Stalin’s
revolution from above, the great reset is not going to plan. The purge
of Trumpism did not end resistance to the party.

Another clue here is the slow maneuvering to pass what is being called
an infrastructure plan but is in reality the end of the two-party
charade. The $4T plan working its way through the Senate will lock in
the gains made by the Left over the last year and foreclose any
electoral resistance. The show trial appears to be an effort to whip up
support on the left in order to force some elements of the right to sign
onto what amounts to their own death certificate.

In our sissified age, the show trial is more about the show than the
trial. In this case, men with guns were sent out to arrest the
protestors and lock them away in dungeons around the capital. The party
leaders lack the courage to bring these people in for a show trial, so
they remain incommunicado. Instead of having them shot and air brushed
from the history books, they are a silent voice in the proceeding, a
reminder to the right side that behind the performance is a will to
power.

This is why people should not be fooled by the collection of sissies
they rolled out in the first phase. Sure, the those mall cops reading
speeches provided to them by the party were ridiculous. One of them was
barely literate. The typical mall Santa sees tougher action than these
wimps saw on January 6th, but that was never the point of this highly
orchestrated drama. Stalin’s show trials were not about public support.
The public supported the victims. It was about party politics.

That is the other parallel worth considering. The victims of Stalin were
on the side of policies that enjoyed broad public support. Stalin was
easily able to overcome this by having control of the instruments of
state power. This is why voting harder is not a path out of the current
crisis. Your vote does not matter. Instead, what comes next is always
what comes next when a ruling elite believes they are the embodiment of
the revolutionary dream. The revolution from above will continue.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="BsPLDMPfgUpM4UUi2YaJjg==cb7CdPtlP9YzXTcSkD+43pe/tRjJRO65YtaWZn17NopxyaEjqjdTYGBNZWLGwWfSg7x"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="7QB11H5ZW94UEZpS57lIyQ==cb7xIdWcjmuZ0TviFsbmHNMPfdGjyuiMb4rS0PVO1jaZNtDmNqwxGf0c9aOwcfIl6xW"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
