---
title: "Against Nature"
date: "2021-06-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-06-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24166"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24166"
---

**Note:** The weekly
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/a-book-without-an-audience/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Taki post</a> is up. I will now be
remembered as the first dissident to denounce Charles Murray. Someone
has to be the first. There is also a new Sunday Thoughts
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/359285" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">podcast</a> up behind the green door for those
interested.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Liberal democracy is both an ideology and a form of government. In the
former case it is generally defined as a democracy constrained by the
principles of liberalism, which are individual rights, secularism,
freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion and a
market-based economy. The underlying assumption of liberal democracy is
that all members have a stake in society and therefore have a right and
a duty to participate in the political life of the society.

As a practical matter, this means elections between multiple distinct
political parties able to participate equally in elections. It means
power is diffused through multiple branches of government by assigning
distinct powers to each branch. Most important, it means the rule of law
in everyday life. That law is bound by a set of principles, usually
codified in a written constitution, that spell out the limits of
government. It also defines private property, equal protection before
the law and civil liberties.

This is the very general definition of western political systems.
Children in the West are taught this in school. These things are
repeated by politicians in various ways and echoed by the mass media.
Whenever there is a need to a bad buy on the world stage, western
leaders, which usually means American leaders, point at the accused, and
claim he is violating the principles of liberal democracy. Putin, for
example, is the arch-villain because Russia is not a liberal democracy.

Because the West assumes that liberal democracy is the best political
system ever created, no one bothers to ask what sort of people is
necessary for a liberal democracy to function as expected. This was the
lesson of communism. It required things of people that are not present
in sufficient quantities to make communism work as communist ideology
promised. Even after murdering millions that did not fit in, the Soviet
system never accomplished what the creators promised.

Similarly, fascism made assumptions about the population. For a fascists
society to function in the long term it required a people who were
homogenous. A system built on the nation must be controlled by the
nation. A diverse, heterogenous population cannot make a system based on
ethnic solidarity work. That is supposed to be the lesson of the last
century. Fascism could not work, because such a system excludes certain
people from the political process, which is always wrong.

The short life of communist and fascist systems would seem to prove that
point about matching the system to the people. What about liberal
democracy? The relatively short run of this ideology suggests is
requires massively diverse populations. Every western democracy quickly
committed itself to overwhelming its native population with people from
around the world. Even societies with no experience with immigration
quickly embraced open borders and multiculturalism.

The trouble here is we actually know something about the internal
dynamics of highly diverse societies. Empires since the bronze age have
struggled with how to organize populations of people with little in
common, beyond their ruler. This is always the challenge of maintaining
an empire. More recently, the United States was founded with a highly
diverse population. While the majority were of English stock, the
cultural diversity was pronounced, predating settlement.

There are four ways to manage a diverse society. The most common
solution is the use of hard segregation. This is the preferred method of
empires. The various tribes are sequestered into their areas. The ruler
makes sure that the tribes respect the boundaries of one another. Even
ancient cities had separate quarters for separate peoples of the empire.
In America, this was the common way northern parts of the country dealt
with the black-white issue.

In the South, another form of segregation was used, a soft segregation
that accepted the math of the racial problem. The black population was
simply too large to sequester them in their own physical space. Instead,
a soft-segregation based on separate logical spaces was developed. The
races had separate spaces within the public space, that reinforced that
the two groups were operating in different spheres. Southern segregation
was a cultural phenomenon, rather than a physical one.

Both of these approaches were deemed in violation of liberal democracy
in the last century, so both have been banned. The soft segregation of
the South was eliminated by force and the hard discrimination of the
North, while tolerated, is condemned as an artifact of the worst of
times. The most highly segregated parts of the country are in the areas
most obsessed with racial equality. These are also the areas that
embrace the ideals of liberal democracy with the greatest enthusiasm.

This conflict has resulted in a new way to manage diversity. There is
the loud and constant repetition of the ideals of liberal democracy,
coupled with equally loud demands for racial, ethnic, and sexual
equality. To reconcile the conflicts, we get a growing list of
exceptions to liberalism and democracy in order to rectify the fact that
diverse people have diverse life outcomes. Proportionality is now the
operating synthesis of egalitarianism and liberal democracy.

Equality before the law, for example, must give way to racial policies
that discriminate against whites, in order to get blacks caught up in
some area. Often, past violations in the pre-liberal democratic age are
used as justification. South Asians in America will get special
privileges, because the British were not always nice to their subjects
when India was her colony. Equality before the law has given way to a
honeycomb of exceptions and carveouts to achieve a desired
proportionality.

What we know thus far about this approach is it creates social conflict
and slowly undermines the very basics of the liberal society. Put
another way, what this effort to make liberal democracy work in a
diverse population tells us is you can have one or the other, but not
both. A liberal democracy can work if the population is fairly uniform,
with a clear majority operating in its interest. Diversity, on the other
hand, seems to only work with an authoritarian government or no
government.

This is another lesson of history. The Balkans could work as a highly
diverse society, just as the North of America worked as a multiracial
society. It required hard segregation and a very firm hand to enforce
it. On the other hand, early America made a multicultural and
multiracial society work by leaving the people to sort out their own
local arrangements with regards to diversity. People self-segregated and
evolved rules to maintain the peace, based on their local conditions.

Neither approach fits into liberalism very well. The segregation
required to keep the peace in a diverse society not only violates the
basic rules of liberal democracy, but it also violates the morality of
the liberal democrat. In other words, the required morality within
liberal democratic system prevents the system from doing what is
required to maintain order in a diverse population. The ideals of the
system come into conflict with the natural realty of the human
condition.

If liberal democracy demands maximum diversity of the population, but
you cannot have liberal democracy with a diverse population, then we are
back to the same problem posed by communism and fascism. Liberal
democracy, at least as currently defined, requires a population
incompatible with it and a ruling elite embracing a morality that
prevents them from doing the basics required of a ruling class. As with
other political ideologies of the last century, this one violates
nature.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="kHlcst4MTMoyKSZhk652LQ==cb76UOI0amnuz8RUZwtJVTEdEr8PNXPw+sI8e7rRKTHwU8NA0Yb+LolYS/AQqf6XQuq"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="NqvISBI+dkJ6Ovizm4s6Bg==cb7TTw49k0HNpJfNQLYEU6SGxf5bBxa0zFULDhohyPuAmqoxBNYEuDjF0TV4uXYaL9M"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
