---
title: "Me In Taki"
date: "2021-07-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-07-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Taki Posts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24313"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24313"
---

Imagine it is the 1980s and a collection of mad scientists searching for
the secret of eternal life put a typical progressive into a cryogenic
state. The lefty does not want to wait for the glorious revolution, and
she wants to be young enough to enjoy the paradise the prophets of her
faith have promised. One thing leads to another, and she remains an
unsavory popsicle until she is thawed out in the current year.

The first thing our defrosted lefty would note is that the modern
aesthetic is something like 1950s East Berlin. Modern America is an ugly
place. The most popular car colors are black, gray, and white. They all
look the same, too. An American parking lot in the 1980s was a circus of
colors and shapes. Today, it is row after row of the best ideas from the
worst people, all in the name of efficiency and utility.

Our proletarian popsicle would probably assume the communists won the
Cold War and imposed their aesthetic on America. After all, the main
selling point against communism was the freedom and creativity of the
capitalist West. In America, you could let your freak flag fly, and no
one could tell you otherwise. The dreary sameness of modern America
could only be the result of losing the Cold War to the communists….

Read the rest
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/the-defrosted-progressive/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.
