---
title: "The Endless War With Russia"
date: "2021-04-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-04-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=23520"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=23520"
---

Without formally announcing it and for reasons no one has bothered to
explain, the American empire has declared war on Russia. That is the
clear message the Biden administration is sending with the new round of
sanctions. They have also kicked out some Russian diplomats. More
importantly, the US is telling US banks they cannot have any dealings
with companies working on Nord Stream 2, the big natural gas pipeline
the Russians are building to supply gas to Europe.

In fairness, the war with Russia started before Biden was installed. You
could argue it started back in the Bush years when they convinced the
former Soviet republic of Georgia to annex parts of South Ossetia. The
Bush people were making noises about adding Georgia to NATO, which did
not sit well with Russia. From their perspective, this was a provocative
act of aggression. It was correctly seen as an effort to surround
Russian with states loyal to the American empire.

Team Obama promised to cool things down with the old enemy. They made a
big show of the “big reset” with the Russians. Hillary Clinton did a
photo-op with the Russian foreign minister in which they jointly held a
big red button labeled “reset” on which each had their hand. Of course,
administrations come and go, but the usual suspects that actually run
imperial foreign policy never change. By the end of the Obama years,
they were claiming the Russians rigged the presidential election.

Under Trump there was a real effort to call off the attacks on the
Russians, but the usual suspects responded to that with two impeachment
efforts. First there was the coup effort led by the FBI to get Trump
removed. The claim was that he worked with the Russians to rig the
election. Then there was the effort launched by the usual suspects in
the State Department. It is easy to forget but pretty much everyone
involved in the first impeachment trial had a connection to Ukraine.

Now of course, Ukraine is at the center of the Biden administration’s
efforts to start a shooting war with the Russians. They have encouraged
the Ukrainian president to declare his intention to return the Crimea to
Ukraine, by force if necessary. Then they offered military guarantees in
the event of war with Russia. The Russians have responded by putting
their military on high alert. They have moved forces onto the border of
Ukraine in preparation for a shooting war.

As if the guarantees to Ukraine are not enough, the Biden people
immediately deployed long range nuclear bombers to Norway. They put
bombers in Portugal as well and raised the strategic posture at the same
time. Russian and NATO air forces are having <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/geopolitical/russian-jet-intercepts-us-norwegian-patrol-aircraft-2nd-major-incident-week"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">regular incidents</a> on the border of
Russia. These are deliberate provocations. The hope is there is an
incident that would warrant escalation. The fact that this happened as
soon as Biden took office says it was not the doing of his people.

One obvious conclusion that can be drawn from this now two decade long
effort to start a war with Russia is the President no longer controls
foreign policy. Obama and Trump tried to normalize relations with
Russia, but both were thwarted by the semi-permanent foreign policy
establishment. Many of these people now have financial dealings with
Ukraine, which goes ignored by Congress. Joe Biden is a vegetable and
his family is literally on the payroll of the Ukrainians.

Of course, there is the madness of it all. Why is the American empire
trying to start a war with Russia? One reason is money, of course. The
usual suspects would like to raid Russia for natural resources. The
parasitic financial system of the West is running out of domestic
capital to burn, so Russia is seen as a new opportunity for plunder.
There is also the grudge they have with Putin, who put an end to the
looting. No one holds a grudge like the people running the American
financial system.

There is also the fact that the foreign policy establishment is packed
to the gills with people who were selected for their hatred of Russia.
This goes back to the Cold War when foreign policy was simply about
Russia. When the Cold War ended, those people did not retire. They did
not stop selecting for people who shared their views on Russia and have
the same cultural connections to the East. The maps have changed, but
the people who see themselves as map makers has not changed.

One not so obvious reason is the need for liberal democracy to have an
enemy. Like the Athenian Empire 2,000 years ago, the American empire is
the result of conflict and as such it is designed to have an enemy. For
half a century, the Russians were the enemy around which the empire was
organized. They tried to replace Russia with Islam, but the Muslims
proved to be a poor adversary. Cultural inertia has brought the American
empire back to Russia as the enemy they need to survive.

Ironically, this new fight with Russia could turn out to be the disaster
that seems to be the natural end of all empires. A shooting war with
Russia will end in disaster for the empire because it would be a
disaster for Europe. Russia would seize Ukraine in short order and this
would result in an air war in the skies over Europe. Then Syria would
unleash a million migrants from the south. It would be a catastrophe
that would be blamed on Washington, one that would probably end NATO.

This is why the <a
href="https://www.unian.info/world/nord-stream-ukraine-should-remain-transit-country-for-russian-gas-to-europe-merkel-11394214.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Germans</a> are not rushing to support
the empire on this. Germans have been dealing with the Russians for a
very long time. they will be dealing with Russians long after the
American empire is gone. Backing the yesterday men of Washington does
not look like the best move for the Germans. America’s Varian Disaster
may not be a military defeat, but instead be a diplomatic catastrophe.
This attack on Russia could be what breaks the NATO coalition.

There is also the domestic situation. Despite the blaring from the
regime propaganda organs, the Biden regime has limited support among
Americans. Half the country thinks he is illegitimate, while the other
half is instinctively dovish. They are also more focused on the domestic
pogroms against their enemies. A war now would be a disaster
domestically for the empire. Half the country would be rooting for the
Russians, just because they hate the American government.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="aRaFsGQ1m5iBW1CvEu2L0w==cb7yhaw+cnK0jDt/TpvG1m6bMRqfqY4Xp1BQF7g7cg5FKe2eFc4dGCN5CRW5r0Wxop8"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="CyKXVfOWWsZp5pp+aUgixQ==cb7Bsbcrw0TO0EXPg4F1i2058Qoequ4bMVqIstrM6SEw3qcYFkVYex7Amlcj7fgDrTW"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
