---
title: "The Secret Police"
date: "2021-06-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-06-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24270"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24270"
---

Most everyone is familiar with the concept of the panopticon, which is a
type of prison designed by the English philosopher Jeremy Bentham. The
system allows all prisoners to be observed by a single security guard,
without the inmates being able to tell whether they are being watched.
The image that comes to mind is of a single eyeball in the sky that is
always scanning for rule breakers. The key is the uncertainty. You never
know if you are being watched by the guards of the prison.

This is a powerful image that always comes to mind when people realize
that their rulers are spying on them. It is the wrong image. America is
not a panopticon, but a synopticon. This is a concept conceived by
Norwegian sociologist Thomas Mathiesen that means surveillance of the
few by the many. Mathiesen belonged to the [prison abolition
movement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prison_abolition_movement) which
advocated for the elimination of prisons and prisons systems in favor of
anarchist inspired alternatives.

The world in which we live today is one where everyone is spying on
everyone, except the rulers, all the time. The local business installs
cameras outside the warehouse to prevent vandals from defacing the walls
with graffiti. Those cameras record everything and store it on the
cloud. The owner is told the video stays on the cloud for seven days,
but in reality, it is there forever. It just gets moved to a different
database, accessible by the security state whenever they think to use
it.

All around us, the vast network of recording devises uploads data to
various databases that are harvested by the secret police and stored in
their systems. Americans don’t think we have secret police, but
Americans also think their votes count. The main feature of liberal
democracy is it keeps the people living in a fog of self-delusion about
who is really in charge of society. That is what we see with the secret
police. They have no name and no location, so they do not exist for most
people.

One of those people is not Tucker Carlson, however. His organization was
visited by someone claiming to be a
[whistleblower](https://youtu.be/mXGZczfbNrY). This person provided
information to them from their texts and e-mails that could only be
known by Team Tucker. The claim was that the NSA was using its
super-duper spying tools to harvest their data. The idea was to find
something they could use to get Tucker fired and then place it in the
media. This is something the FBI does when framing people.

Like most Americans, Tucker takes his rulers at face value. If the
government is spying on someone, it is in an official capacity from an
official office. That is not how the secret police work in the American
synopticon. The secret police are instead a loose network of fellow
travelers that occupy positions inside the large institutions, both
private and public. It is a secret society in which the membership is
informal and rooted in shared beliefs and access to information.

In the case of Tucker, it is unlikely that the NSA was using its
super-duper listening tools to gather up his e-mails. Whether such a
thing exists is debatable. This data exists in databases both private
and public. There is no need to sniff every packet on the internet in
real time when millions of people volunteer to capture, collate and
store the data on private systems. When those systems are maintained by
people in the loose network that makes up the secret police, getting
access is never difficult.

A good example is the insurrection hoax. The banks and mobile carriers
were quick to volunteer their services to the hoaxers in the inner
party. They provided mobile phone data and credit card data without
being asked. All of a sudden, within hours of the event, the FBI and DOJ
were getting waves of information about people who may or may not have
been at the event. In the synopticon, the FBI is reduced to errand boys
when it comes to framing enemies of the system.

In the case of Tucker, this is probably an operation not aimed at
Tucker, but at his fans out there in flyover country. The secret police
send this guy to tell Team Tucker that they are spying on him. They
probably got some stuff from Google or Apple to use as a prop in this
little drama. It is entirely possible the operation is being run out of
Silicon Valley and the FBI official they are using is just a fellow
traveler. His credentials as a high-ranking government agent adds
authenticity to the caper.

Of course, Tucker ran straight to the camera to report on what happened,
because that is what you do if you are a journalist in a democracy.
There is the value of the self-delusion maintained by liberal democracy.
If Tucker saw himself as a subject in an authoritarian surveillance
state, he would have evaluated this event from that perspective and kept
quiet about it. He would have assumed they were targeting him, hoping he
would blab about it on television.

Now, if this operation is not about spying on Tucker in order to get him
fired, then what is the point of it? The primary tool of control in both
the panopticon and synopticon is psychological, not informational. The
theory is that the uncertainty and lack of privacy instills
submissiveness. The prisoner, never sure when he is being watched and
what is being watched, begins to assume his captors are always watching
and know everything about him, even his innermost thoughts.

This has always been a key feature of the secret police. They want their
targets to think everyone and anyone could be a spy. Since the ruling
class sees every white person in America as a potential threat, the
secret police are trying to make sure every white person knows they are
being watched. Getting Tucker, a guy who thinks UFOs are real, to play
along in this drama is not terribly difficult. Millions of white people
who watch Tucker are now thinking they are under surveillance.

In every corrupt regime, the secret police are a symptom of the rot, but
they also reflect the nature of the ruling class. The KGB in post-war
Russia was highly bureaucratized, reflecting the nature of the regime.
They slowly began to ignore organized crime, as that was hard to
address, and focused on trivial crime. On the other hand, the Okhrana,
which was the Tsars secret police, was a highly personal operation. It
was ad hoc and relied on individuals to infiltrate enemies of the Tsar.

In a liberal democracy like America, no one really knows who is actually
in charge, so no one knows the nature of the secret police. There are
formal institutions, just as we see in politics, but those institutions
never do what the people want, which is what you see with elected
officials. Just as with elected officials, there always seems to be a
hidden agenda with the security forces. It is as if there is an
invisible hand on the levers of power that is only known by what it
does.

Just as the secret police reflects the nature of the system, it also
gives us a sense of the system’s overall health. The more threatened the
ruler, the more willing he is to use explicit force to intimidate his
opponents. The confident ruler is willing to play cat and mouse, often
for his own amusement. We saw this with he Tsar as century ago, where he
was willing to be more explicit in the use of violence. The less secure
he was in his position, the more willing he was to shoot people.

What we are seeing today is an effort to public intimidate opponents.
Torturing political prisoners in secret DC jails and now advertising a
domestic spying operation suggest genuine fear in the system. They
really do believe that Trump was put in office by a secret conspiracy
against them. This paranoia and fear is driving the explicit use of
force by the rulers. That invisible hand is moving from the shadows,
into the open and becoming more obvious in order to intimidate the
enemy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="yfWSuFHTAkpL9tODyoZFTA==cb76EF81hUl1Ii64CaMjsGAelJpiWHYo/5L1m/Er/uj+tW4POM7U9NZnSpi4ubowW+/"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="/Jpgbp0T/fw64tZsy70dnQ==cb7vQn+zt21TE/1mlTr2Q2qbjONNexxC+Zopga0uVU/2pX45AH6DZcebKONC3UERin9"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
