---
title: "Hacks"
date: "2021-06-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-06-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24046"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24046"
---

The term “standing head” is a newspaper term that goes back to the days
when the papers were printed by typesetters. It means regular or
recurring content, such as the headline for a feature like “Box Scores”
in the sports section or “aspiring rapper” in the crime blotter. The
term is used to so often that the old typesetters would have it as a
block ready to use when needed. It also came to be known as a trope,
stereotype, or a euphemism that was commonly used in the news.

In the modern age, the word “hacked” has become a standing head, in that
it is something like a catchall answer for all sorts of things. If a
celebrity gets drunk and posts N-bombs on Twitter, she claims she was
hacked. If a company loses customer information, they claim it was
hackers. Whenever someone does not want to take responsibility for their
own mistakes, they fob it off on hackers. Hackers are the digital
version of Loki the trickster.

One reason for this is that the modern media seems to select for
narcissistic dullards at all levels of the system. This is not just the
airheads who read the teleprompter on television during news shows.
Throughout the media, the system rewards those willing to fall for the
most ridiculous nonsense if it comes from authority. The more gullible
and naïve, the greater the access. The more willing a “reporter” is to
repeat verbatim what he has been told, the greater the access.

When some official tells a “reporter” that the problem is due to
hackers, the reporter never questions it. After all, they are selected
for their obsequiousness, so they never question authority. They are
also too stupid to see the hacking claim is ridiculous, so even if they
were feeling rebellious, they would not know what to ask. That was a big
part of the Russian hacking nonsense back in 2016. Even those who play
the skeptic role in the media were too dumb to see the absurdity.

It appears we have another version of that involving the Colonial
Pipeline shutdown form a couple of weeks ago. The company claimed they
were hacked by wily Russians, probably the same Russians who were in
league with Trump. They had no choice but to pay those hackers millions
in Bitcoin to get unhacked. The story was obviously rather fishy, but no
one in the media questioned it. After all, hackers are the universal
hobgoblins of this age, so why question it?

Now the FBI is peddling a story that is so ridiculous that it should
come with a laugh track, but it is being promoted by the media. Here is
<a href="https://twitter.com/GeoffRBennett/status/1401982282815115269"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">a tweet</a> from a simpleton in the White
House press team. claiming the FBI got the crypto back from the hackers
by using their special James Bond skills. This is a
<a href="https://twitter.com/GeoffRBennett/status/1401993342620160002"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">follow up tweet</a> from the same
simpleton claiming the hackers used a server in California to store
their ill-gotten loot from the Colonial Pipeline hack.

The absurdity of this is a good example of the credulity of the media.
We have these super-villain hackers from Russia, who foolishly leave
their crypto lying around on American servers for the FBI to locate.
This is right out of the bad Hollywood script department where the
villain always makes a rookie error, like leaving part of the Death Star
easily accessible to the enemy. In this case, we have people expert at
cracking security, but use no security in their own operation.

Then we have the claim the FBI recovered the exact same Bitcoin that was
paid to the hackers by the company. Anyone with the slightest knowledge
of how crypto works knows this is a nonsense claim. In order to know
that the FBI would have to tie the address to a person and that person
to the crime. If they have proof that the person is the culprit, then
they can just arrest that person. There is no need for their dramatic
caper where they seize the crypto from the server stash.

Probably the most laughable bit of the story is these super villain
hackers from Russia were using a Coinbase account. Again, everyone with
the slightest knowledge of crypto knows Coinbase is mobbed up by US
security. In order for them to remain in existence and become a publicly
traded company they had to give the FBI and NSA free access to their
system. Yet these super-villain hackers from Russia decided to use the
NSA’s preferred crypto vendor to fence their ransom money?

Of course, people who have used crypto exchanges like Coinbase know that
they use multifactor authentication. That means you need more than just
a user name and password to access your account. Typically it means
entering a code that is texted to the phone registered with the account.
That means the FBI had the phone number and user credentials of the
hackers. That only makes complete sense if the hackers were located at
Langley or the Hoover building.

Everything about this story from the FBI, DOJ and the company is utter
nonsense, but none of it matters. In our precious democracy, no one in
the media dares utter a discouraging word about anything from official
circles. Even if one of the stooges in the media got rambunctious, they
are too stupid to know who to ask about the claims made in these
stories. The mass media is now fully staffed with toddlers, trusting
everything they are told by the people in charge.

The old Hoffer line about mass movements become rackets in America gets
overused, but it is amazingly accurate. Democracy in America is just a
racket, an ongoing bust out enabled by an army of hacks in the
administrative state. Real hackers are never caught, because they work
for the people running the system, like the pirates working for the
crown during the age of sail. Meanwhile, the hacks in the system are
always ready to look the other way, as long as the paycheck clears.

In fairness, calling it a racket seems unfair. Most of the people
involved are simply too stupid to run a racket. Most of the people
involved are like Geoff Bennett, the guy from NBC in those tweets. He is
a gullible doofus who checks the right boxes on the casting form, so he
gets to play White House reporter. Anyone with something on the ball is
boiled off or they are cast on the other side of the dynamic. They get
to make up official whoppers for the media to report. This is the
hack-a-rama.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="FlShHcJWkHYujKgfnLNLaA==cb7SORLLl+PqzynS4SVs1iLiJ/SDizs6TN77p8yu9YZsMxHWeV0jSkcVRdpCqUT9Yv7"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="tWDZgaqzRal8ga3d62PStA==cb7GJRhNIVplYTOVOdJDy+QVO0MArxIAOpTpfrboFpqs141ZSJ3CREiDo6+JR9LcGUN"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
