---
title: "The Renter Society"
date: "2021-03-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-03-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=23235"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=23235"
---

Anyone who has rented a car, or an apartment knows it is a different
relationship from owning a car or especially a house. Drive through a
working class neighborhood and you can easily spot the owners from the
renters. The houses with overgrown lawns will usually be the renters. Of
course, everyone knows the jokes about rental cars. Even the most
conscientious renter tends to be more reckless with a rental car. You
just do not have the same connection with it as you own car.

Another thing goes along with this. People with old beat up used cars
tend not to be as careful as people with new cars. This has been tested.
Take that old clunker and fix it up or replace it with something nice
and the driver gets more conscientious about his driving and how he
treats the car. The same thing probably happens with houses or even
neighborhoods. What is the point of having a great lawn if every lawn in
your neighborhood is a trash strewn, overgrown mess?

The point here is that the relationship one has to the property at his
disposal is controlled to some degree by the ownership and condition.
For this reason, it has been an article of faith with conventional
conservatives that the way to lift people out of poverty is to get them
into a house they own. The theory is these people will invest in their
community, because they own a house in it. They have skin in the game,
while the renter can just pick up and leave if things get bad.

This is not something that gets much attention now. While homeownership
rates are about where they have always been, few people really own their
house. They have a mortgage that they may never pay off. Each generation
of American is poorer and carries greater debt. The policy to inflate
home prices means younger people will carry a mortgage much longer and
carry a much larger debt load in general. America is a land of debtors
falling deeper in debt with each generation.

Then there is the general erosion of property rights. You may own your
home and your car, but some company is tracking your use of them. That
information, which is your property, is bought and sold without your
consent. If you have a smart TV, it is spying on you, maybe even
listening to your conversations. Just as the landlord can come into your
apartment at any time, corporate America can poke around in your life
whenever it feels the need to harvest information about you.

It is not just in our private lives where we see the transactional
arrangement supplanting the ownership society. Businesses are
increasingly moving to technology platforms that are pure services.
Instead of owning the accounting system and running it on your server,
you sign up for a web-based option. You pay monthly and agree to their
terms of service, like all the other services that now dominate our
lives. Increasingly, a business is just a temporary set of rental
agreements.

This is something that cannot be overstated. if you look at the firms
behind the apps that pop up in our lives, there is nothing to them. They
have assembled a collection of licensed products that they have given a
clever name. They work out of temporary offices and rent server space
from Amazon. The employees are contract labor from somewhere over the
horizon. The traveling circuses of old had deeper roots than the typical
tech startup. They at least owned the tents.

There is something else that relates to this change in our society.
Drive around and the infrastructure is looking shabby. Streets are full
of potholes. Utility lines are a cluttered mess, often looking like
something from the third world. Schools are old and shabby, even in nice
middle-class areas. People think about the tyranny part of
anarcho-tyranny, but it is the anarchy part that has the greatest
impact. There is a general shabbiness to our lives that erodes our civic
pride and commitment to community.

Taken together, the engine for creating social capital has slowly fallen
into disrepair, to the point where we have adopted the renter’s
mentality. The only time politicians speak of community is when they are
discussion artificial or imaginary communities like the “trans
community” or the “Asian community.” Even more bizarre is that most
people think about their on-line groups when they think of community.
The typical millennial has a stronger relationship to other gamers than
his neighbors.

The other thing about the renter’s mentality is the owner of the rental
property does not invest more than necessary. The landlord does not
install granite counter tops in a rental unit and the car rental place
is not waxing the cars between rentals. The software as a service vendor
is cutting costs on development, because that is his only way to
increase his profit margins. Eventually, these savings have to be
balanced out with a capital infusion, but often after the property is
sold.

This cannot work in a society. There is no way to replace the social
capital that is not being created due to the lack of community. We see
this with the attempts by Washington to inject money into the economy.
What is not stolen by the pirates that prey on the economy has no impact
on the people. The $1,400 check is never going to be the same as a job
at a local business, run by one of your neighbors. Once the money is
spent, there will be a new cry for more checks.

America is a rentier economy populated by people with a renter’s
mentality. Every relationship is transactional. Once the transaction is
over, the parties go on their way until the next transaction. One result
of this is the country now looks like a neighborhood full of rental
properties. No one, not even the government, sees a reason to invest in
anything other than their immediate needs. The last functioning
institution is the military, and it is succumbing to the same mentality.

It is tempting to call this feudalism, but feudalism had a strong
ownership component and a well-defined set of reciprocal
responsibilities. Modern America is becoming something different. A tiny
group of people own everything, either directly or through the financial
system, with no relationship to anyone other than through the rental
agreement, the terms of service or the short term contract. The vast
majority are just passing through society like renters.

Whether or not this is sustainable is an open question. The only
societies we have ever created without social capital are penal
colonies. Even in those, the inmates build bonds with one another. A
prison cellblock has more social capital than a gaming community or
social media network. We are into uncharted territory. Can a society
sustain itself in a crisis, even a society post scarcity, when none of
the members feels any connection to the other members? It seems
unlikely.

On the other hand, maybe one part of the post scarcity society is there
is no longer a threat of a genuine crisis. The great crises of the last
few decades have been imaginary or exaggerated. There is a strong sense
that things like the Covid panic are due to the political class not
having anything to do with their time. These fake crises give them a
reason to demand our attention. Maybe the renter society is a natural
response to the elimination of real threats to society.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A new year brings new changes. The same is true for this site as we
adjust to the reality of managerial authoritarianism. That means
*embracing crypto* for when the inevitable happens and the traditional
outlets are closed. Now more than ever it is important to support the
voices that support you.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you prefer other ways of donating, look at
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the donate page</a>. Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="yEmsY9q/LVZq4lxVBE9ISg==cb7GtHEWRbxMeThaDUhxDC3AsoqdRpgjR93bVJa/Lbz/v4zFrdB0LH4f+hMeauUGxL4"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="afSHe6wPE8ofx4EHW3Uvlg==cb7bH901I9VVBH25Gq+dipRWyihR45rr8Ho7aVIUIrtwdr5DhNpiwOC9vTDp6Pdmic6"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
