---
title: "Lawless"
date: "2021-08-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-08-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24907"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24907"
---

There are two ways to look at the rules. There is the spirit of the
rules, the intentions of the rule makers, what they were trying to
achieve. Then there is a narrow interpretation of the rules as written
without any thought as to what it was the ruler makers were trying to
create. The former option assumes the ability to discern the intent of
the rule makers from resources often unrelated to the rules. The latter
assumes the ruler makers were without error when they created the rules.

This should be how legal disputes are framed. One side argues intent,
and the other side argues the letter. The reason is both sides
acknowledge the primacy of the law, but disagree as the its meaning.
Their dispute can and often does result in a compromise where the letter
of the law side agrees to a change in the wording in order to clarify
the meaning, such that both sides can agree on the implementation. The
dispute is a form of improvement on the law and its consequences.

That should be the nature of the law in a civil modern society. Instead,
the law in modern America is a battle where one side conjures imaginary
constructs in which the rule makers could have created law and the other
side rigidly defends the last set of imaginary constructs that were
miraculously embedded into the law. One side argues for a living
constitution, an imaginary framework that is always spawning new legal
models, while the federalist side defends the law as written.

An example of the imaginary construct is <a
href="https://cdn.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2021/03/24/12-17808.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this ruling</a> by the Ninth Circuit
which ruled 7-4 against George Young, a man who was twice denied an open
carry permit. The court found that Hawaiian law predates and supersedes
the Second Amendment. “Hawai‘i law began limiting public carriage of
dangerous weapons, including firearms, more than 150 years ago — nearly
fifty years before it became a U.S. territory and more than a century
before it became a state”.

In the opinion, they rely upon a philosophical claim that the present is
the result of the long march of history. The pro-gun side only goes back
to the 18th century and the writing of the constitution. This new theory
goes back to medieval English law to argue that the default position has
always been a strict regulation of weapons. They also acknowledge that
they could go back even further, presumably to dawn of writing, to prove
that history moves toward an unarmed society.

To the untrained mind, this sounds like a weird new form of animism, in
which the intent of history is discerned by a specialized examination of
the historical record. In this view, the law itself becomes meaningless.
What matters is the esoteric debates among a specialized class of
clerics. They compete with one another to conjure novel theories of
history to determine public policy. The assumption is always that some
animating force lies behind the movement of history.

More important, the people writing the law cease to matter. In the case
of the Second Amendment, we know the intent of those who wrote it.
Despite the crackpot claims about it applying only to militias, we know
what the Founders meant. They wanted a society comprised on armed men
willing to defend society from tyrants. Jefferson imagined a society
that had regular rebellions in which tyrants were hanged as a way to
keep the tree of liberty properly manured.

The intent in this mystical legal theory does not matter, as the people
writing the laws are just flotsam on the tides of history. The Founders
may have thought they were on the right side of history, but history
clearly shows they were not, so history demands their intent be ignored.
They fought the tides of history, with their crazy ideas about liberty,
but they and their creations must be swept aside as the mighty river of
humanity flows towards its inevitable destination.

Another example of this mystical view of history is the claim that the
Second Amendment is the result of <a
href="https://jonathanturley.org/2021/07/30/the-second-amendment-is-about-rifles-not-racism/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">racism</a>. You see, the concept of
racism may not have existed in the 18th century, but it is a thread
running through history. It is the invisible hand that guides the white
race. Because everything white people have done can be motivated by this
dark spirit force of racism, nothing white people have created can have
authority, including their intent when writing laws.

In practice, this shamanistic legal theory is the overturning of law
itself. If the letter and spirit of the law are products of history and
history can only be understood by the shamans of the faith, then there
is no law. The Soviet Union had a constitution that looks like something
the modern democrats demand. In reality, everything in that document was
interpreted by party theorists. The text was meaningless and so was the
political theory behind it, because they existed to serve party goals.

Ironically, history tells us where this must end. The clever use of
language by people bred to argue esoteric points of moral philosophy
does not alter reality. The law in America is now a tyranny of the
invisible hand of history, as interpreted by a shadowy class of clerics
that never step into direct sunlight. The law is a conspiracy against
the people, as corrupt as every other Western institution. Like politics
or economics, the law is a tool. The hand that wields that tool is what
matters.

At some point, the hand behind the present madness will become clear.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="7Hf5CHzWu7RFhD+HRcSwlg==cb7NfGnIYKH/e+iHOGzzn6qs+YtUekkWU1Rjb/74lXZh/hAKCsIXCTL495iZn7sxX5A"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ue17eZK0VEV5WwVtfq+lVQ==cb7odzTha7BYVLYwXVLpNnYYQ3K7st63QYRkljXAoJ2BFijeEFUdvrTHGsK/znMrmTY"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
