---
title: "Crisis Of Culture"
date: "2021-09-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-09-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=25153"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=25153"
---

Imagine you are interviewing for a job and during the course of the
initial interview you learn that the future boss is a big fan of F1
racing. This grabs your attention because you are also a fan of auto
racing, especially Formula 1. You mention this to the interviewer who
then tells you he is also a big racing fan. He jokes that he got the job
because the big boss is a F1 fan. Eventually you get the job and find
out that many of your coworkers are race fans, weekend gearheads and so
on.

Now, an interest in motorsports has nothing to do with the work of the
company or any of the jobs in the company, but the culture of the
company, driven in large part by the big boss, has a strong connection
with motorsports. Over time, even those with little interest in the
hobby get interested because so many people at the company have a strong
interest in the topic and talk about it often. As a result, the
selection pressure favors gearheads and boils off those who were not
gearheads.

This is not an uncommon phenomenon. Every company has a culture, even
the largest corporations, and it usually stems from the founding stock
of the company. A big part of mergers and acquisitions is to assimilate
the acquired company into the culture of the purchasing company. In the
case of a genuine merger, one culture eventually dominates the other.
Truly merging two cultures is impossible unless they are so close that
the differences are superficial.

Something like a company-wide interest in motorsports is a useful way of
understanding the much deeper aspects of organizational culture. The
sorts of people who into car racing are going to have a set of common
personality traits. Race fans will tend to be more risk tolerant and
more interested in problem solving. If the big boss was a woman into her
church, the company culture would reflect the nature of women who are
active in their church. That company would be more conservative.

The culture of an organization is ultimately about how the organism as a
whole goes about solving the problems for which the organization was
formed. In the case of a company, the primary challenge is profit, but
every industry has peculiar challenges when it comes to holding down
costs and maximizing sales. The culture of the company evolved to meet
those challenges. Successful firms have evolved internal processes upon
which it relies to solve these daily issues.

This is important in understanding the nature of a crisis. In business,
there are good years and bad years, no matter how well run the firm. The
business cycle is immutable, it seems, and it is often industry
specific. The firms with a good company culture are built to ride these
waves, minimizing losses on the down swing, and maximizing profits on
the upswing. The not so well run firms face a crisis in the down years,
struggling to hold on, but party like rock stars during the good times.

There are two types of crises. One is the normal challenges that face
every organization regardless of its culture. The down times feel like a
crisis to the well run business, but they have the tools to manage it,
so it is a situational crisis. Getting through it is simply a matter of
execution. For the firm lacking a culture prepared to address the down
years, the crisis is structural. Their survival does not depend on their
execution, because they lack the necessary tools. Instead, it relies on
fortune.

Put another way, the crisis that truly threaten the existence of the
firm is one with roots that go back to its origin. If in the case of the
well-run company the nature of the business changes dramatically, it
will face a genuine crisis for which it may not be equipped to solve. It
then has a crisis with roots to its founding. The crisis that threatens
the viability of an organization is always going to be one that started
long before it was noticed and is a symptom of a systemic problem.

This is a useful way of thinking about how the managerial elite of the
American empire is prepared for the future. The culture of the elite is,
in many respects, a product of a bygone era in the empire. During the
Cold War it was a bipolar world, but in reality, it was a unipolar world
from the 1970’s until the end. The Soviets had turned conservative and
were no longer a realistic ideological threat. The party was just
holding onto power by minimizing risk. America was the center of the
universe.

What this means is that for a few generations now, the system has been
selecting for people who will serve an established system. In the early
part of the 20th century, the system selected for creative people, risk
takers and those willing to reconsider the old way of doing things. The
old order was giving way to a new order. America was on the cusp of
becoming a global empire and it needed talent at the top to help
reorganize domestically and solve the challenges globally.

In the present crisis, the culture of the ruling class is lacking the
tools to address the problems, but it also lacks the sort of people who
will look outside the system. It has been selecting for highly
conservative people, with respect to the culture of the managerial
class, for generations now. It is why the system violently vomited up
Donald Trump and continues to dry heave over the memory of him. The
culture of the ruling class is built around adversity to change.

The old Hemingway line about bankruptcy is overused, but it reveals the
truth about the dynamics of a collapse. In retrospect, the signs were
all there, but the modes of thought at the time made it difficult to
detect. The collapse of the Soviet Union is a great example of the
Hemingway quote. It was happening a little at a time starting with
Khrushchev and then happened all of a sudden under Gorbachev. The
culture of the system prevented it from meeting the challenges of the
age.

This may be what we are seeing today. The culture of the American ruling
elite began to adapt to the unipolar world in the 1970’s. That is when
the great outsource of the industrial base began as part of the
financialization of the economy. It was formalized in the currency
arrangements of the 1980’s and has remained static ever since. It is an
old system built for an age that no longer exists. The crisis is the
conflict between their view of the world and the reality of the world.

It is easy to see that America has a culture problem, but it is not what
people think of when they hear the term. It is much deeper than the
bourgeois degeneracy we see in the mass media. It is the structure of
the ruling class. Their understanding of reality is rooted in a world
that no longer exists. Its culture of problem solving is no longer
compatible with present reality. Like the poorly run firm hoping to
weather a downturn in the business cycle, they are counting on luck to
save them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="n52UiGO5jyMtSoG22YCm0Q==cb7qVoF1dmHCjGWSni/Rcn6L7PvdZd4q6SqZzQ5qBXa7COJE07XJ2w2udPHW91kWgB0"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="cFptGpaIbk2Om6AXoG7Ktg==cb7tWhgaJS5BL9VuMfxPWcfqmY1ehNuj3PNMwls4PopdOEe3AwVatGOV8+2Har3Kbeh"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
