---
title: "The New And Improved GOP"
date: "2021-05-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-05-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=23829"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=23829"
---

If you have an idea for a new solution to an old problem, you have two
ways to promote your new solution. One is you can try to convince people
it is a novel solution that is not just a better version of old
solutions. It is a compete departure from the old way of addressing the
problem. The other option is to disguise the originality of your
solution and pitch your new idea as an advance on the old idea. Your new
solution is a new and improved way of solving this old problem.

For example, you have come up with a new home cleaning product. Instead
of the normal kitchen cleaner that relies about chemicals, your new
product relies on microorganisms that eat the typical kitchen grime. You
could try to convince people that using an alien life form to keep the
stove clean is better than the old way of getting rid of grease and
grime. Alternatively, you could skip past the details and focus on the
amazing ability of your new product to clean the stovetop.

One approach is about changing minds. In this case, you need to convince
people that novel life forms are better than chemicals. The other
approach is about positioning your product at largest point of
agreement. In this case, most people hate cleaning their kitchen, so you
focus on that as your rallying point. The choice comes down to how open
minded people will be about the novel idea. If you think people are open
to a new approach, then your novel idea is the better option.

It also depends upon your willingness to take risks. You could try and
fail to change people’s minds about using invincible critters to clean
the kitchen. They could be perfectly safe and better for the environment
than the use of caustic chemicals, but people freak out over invisible
critters. Your effort to change how people think about the use of
microorganisms could fall on deaf ears. Even worse, they could think you
are a crazy person promoting dangerous ideas.

This is always the dilemma of politics. The reason the parties sound
like two metronomes is they think it is safer to focus on the
established market. They eschew novelty because that runs the risk of
catastrophic failure. Their donors could be offended, or some large
segment of their voting base could oppose  it. The downside of the tried
and true is a modest election loss. The downside of embracing a novel
set of ideas is turning the party into a fringe party of weirdos.

This framing is what the Republicans now face. Most would like to go
back to being the bland shadow of the Democrats. That was easy and fun.
It required little risk, as all they had to do is wear little American
flag lapel pins and be mean to Democrats. Until the 2016 debacle, being
a Republican was simple. You waited for the Democrats to step on a rake,
and then you talked about it on Fox News. Come the election you told
your voters that they had to vote for you or the Democrats would win.

The one thing the Republicans seem to have figured out is the old
approach is not going to work, even if the evil orange menace has been
purged from their city. Maybe it is the threat of Trump running in 2024
or their own internal polling, but they seem to have figured out that
the old product is not going to sell. They need a new product to take to
their voters if they hope to win future elections. This is the gist of
<a
href="https://www.scribd.com/document/501097787/Working-Class-Memo-FINAL#from_embed"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this memo</a> circulated by the House GOP
leadership last month.

In addition to it being leaked to the public, friendly media was told to
promote it to the typical Republican readers. Here is <a
href="https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2021/05/08/pinkerton-what-the-republican-party-can-learn-from-the-huge-victory-of-the-british-conservative-party/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">James Pinkerton</a> promoting the working
class stuff in the context of British politics. That one off-year
election is supposed to be a proof of concept for the new working-class
conservative. Here is <a
href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/gop-memo-embrace-blue-collar-support-condemn-minuscule-minority"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Fox News</a> “reporting” on the origins
of the memo and the person behind it. The “minuscule minority” bit seems
to be coded language for the neoconservatives.

Given the timing and the ouster of Liz Cheney, the market testing of the
new idea to win elections must have gone well. This summer the
Republicans will have their regular meetings and strategy sessions to
figure out how to take their new message to the market for the 2022
misterms. At least for now, they think sounding like a kinder gentler
Donald Trump is the ticket to success. Look for them to stump in shirt
sleeves or maybe blue jeans and flannel shirts this fall.

It is tempting to think they are going for the novel approach as
outlined at the beginning, over the tried and true approach. In reality,
they are not veering far from their standard approach to politics, which
is a pure economic play. That has always been the GOP approach to
politics, when you strip away the gingerbread. “Vote for us and you have
more money and more cheap stuff.” They are now tailoring that message
for the humans their analysists have identified as working class.

The trouble with this approach is the Trump phenomenon was not powered
by economic anxiety. Immigration, for example, was never about money but
about culture and demographics. Lots of people hate the changes they see
in their communities and they were attracted to the TV carny-barker
because he mentioned it. The same is true about trade policy. What
people see is Walmart and Amazon obliterating small business and they
associate it with global trade policy.

The other problem is there is an “own the libs” vibe to it. The people
running the Republican Party are just as divorced from the dreaded
private sector as the robots running the Democratic Party. Is anyone
going to mistake Ben Sasse for a working class guy? Kevin McCarthy?
Lyndsey Graham? There is a good chance they look like John Kerry dressed
up as a hunter in the 1996 election. These Republicans talking like Huey
Long will underscore their otherness to the voters.

On the other hand, homo economicus has always been a homunculus for
white middle-class voters to crap into in order to avoid the culture
war. In this regard, the Republican message, like the libertarianism on
which is rests, has always been a form of political escapism for white
people. Reducing everything to money means avoiding the debate about
culture items, like race and sex. Reframing Trumpism to be nothing more
than an economic play fit the conditioning of the typical white voter.

On the other other hand, the thing that sociopathic grifters always know
is there is one last squeeze of even the oldest lemon. This could wring
out one more good election for a party that no longer has a reason to
exist. Baby Boomers, hoping to buy enough time will flock to the
message. The struggling economy and the reality of the Biden
administration will suck the life from the Left. The GOP will get one
last shot to sucker white people into thinking this time will be
different.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="MFhsAoTSHHLgrmIy14I0Cw==cb7RTlxoGTmtlcuS2Xt/c3GewntNl8jXJfF75a4a9OETUc8SR52qQwzabvSTib0HZS/"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="lvHLdhD8Iym5f5r8gST1/A==cb77/nnlMvznyzzMvbGM1bczqRzzCJqXYSBznk8Jq+N14m8XNH3uM6DsDVP3bgxpPei"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
