---
title: "GameStop"
date: "2021-01-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-01-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22689"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22689"
---

Until a few days ago, most people had no reason to think about GameStop,
a retail chain that sells video games and accessories. If you have kids,
you probably know the place, because your kids like to go there.
Otherwise, the only reason to think about the place was to wonder how
they managed to survive as a brick-and-mortar operation in a world
dominated by on-line retailers. They exist as a reminder that humans
still prefer in-person shopping, even if it comes at a premium.

That is the funny thing about the GameStop story. While other
traditional retailers struggled to maintain margins, [they are an
exception](https://finance.yahoo.com/quote/GME/financials?p=GME). This
is a company with ridiculously high margins. Even with a drop in sales
due to the great reset launched by the managerial class this year, they
maintained their margins. Whatever they are doing in their shops, people
think it is worth a premium. Despite this, their stock was a dog,
falling below $4 until the recent explosion.

It is the explosion in their share price that has them in the news. The
share price as of the close of business yesterday was $347.51. The
pre-market ask is $489.00 as these words are being typed. That number
keeps going up, so it is not unreasonable to think that shares will be
trading at or above $500 today. Everyone now wants a piece of the
winningest stock since the dot-com bubble. If you had this company in
your portfolio six months ago, you are a very happy investor.

Of course, this explosion in share price did not happen because everyone
suddenly realized this was a great company. The story here is retail
investors organizing on Reddit noticed that some big hedge funds were
shorting the hell out of the stock, despite its depressed price.
Shorting a stock is when you borrow shares of the stock and then sell
them, hoping to buy them back at a lower price. You then return them to
the lender, and you collect the difference.

These hedge funds took this a step further and borrowed shares that did
not actually exist, which is called naked short selling. Basically, the
center of the naked short sell is a promise to sell the shares at a
price on a certain date. If the seller is unable to borrow those shares,
then they must go into the market and buy them. If the price is below
the promised price, no problem. If not or if the shares are simply not
available to be purchased, then it is a very big problem.

This is where we are in the story of GameStop. At least one hedge fund
was committed to delivering shares of this company at a few bucks per
share, but now the shares are many times higher and becoming something
close to unobtanium. The result is the hedge fund, Melvin Capital, has
been wiped out. They had to liquidate all of their other holdings to
cover their short position. Even with help from other hedge funds, they
will file for bankruptcy next week.

By itself, this is an amusing story, but hardly big news. But, no one
really knows if this is an isolated situation. The insiders were
targeting a number of companies, hoping to jawbone down their share
prices while they aggressively shorted those stocks. It is not
unrealistic to think there are dozens of hedge funds out there working
this grift, so this could be the tip of a much larger iceberg. The movie
chain AMC Entertainment is seeing its stock follow GameStop for the same
reasons.

Now, this may not sound very interesting, but even in today’s world of
magical finance, math still matters. If you have to raise cash to cover
your bad bet on a naked short sell, it means selling something to raise
the cash. Hedge funds tend not to sell their furniture or expensive
sports cars, so they sell their good holdings. Usually, they sell their
best holdings, as they are the most liquid. If enough hedge funds are
forced to liquidate their good holdings, those holdings will decline in
price.

This is the great fear in these situations. No one knows how much
exposure there is to this bad trade. That is why the general market will
decline, as the robots that do almost all of the trading move into the
safest of safe harbors. This, in turn, can result in selling of
otherwise solid assets, simply because no one wants to be holding an
asset in decline, especially in a declining market. Given the
ridiculously inflated share values, this short squeeze could signal a
very big correction.

It could also be a big nothing or it could mean the government comes in
and makes everything right with bailouts or new rules to prevent further
erosion. That really is the story here with GameStop. This revolt of
small retail investors against this hedge fund is about the larger
issue. The marketplace has been perverted by insiders with special
access to both market makers and market regulators. The financial
markets are no longer tethered to economic reality. It is just a giant
bust out.

This is why this event is being compared to Gamergate. Like the populist
revolts we have seen all over the culture the last ten years, this
organized attack by small investors is about a larger issue. The
institutions we are supposed to rely upon to regulate our lives have
been corrupted by managerial insiders. Just as the marketplace of ideas
is now manipulated by thugs and lunatics on behalf of the oligarchs, the
financial markets have become a grift operated by wealthy insiders.

What this means, of course, is that the insiders getting hurt in this
will go to their colleagues in the ruling class and have the insurgents
crushed. These people will be pushed off public forums, have their
accounts closed by the trading companies and some will probably be
arrested on made up charges. In a society where mocking the rulers on
Twitter could get you [ten years in
prison](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/social-media-influencer-charged-election-interference-stemming-voter-disinformation-campaign),
anything is possible. The ruling class will not be mocked or defied.

On the other hand, it is great example of how to resist managerial
tyrants. These people will not be talked out of their corruption. They
have no scruples, so they cannot be shamed into doing the right thing.
They have real power, so they cannot be removed from their positions.
The only course is to drive up the cost for them. Throwing sand in the
gears whenever possible drives up the cost of rule. Eventually, the
managerial state becomes the naked short sell and has to be liquidated.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="R+BUT44mdAPrb8IIoGJUpw==cb7hikZCt2b3uy4E7Z5On22xI5PRJ2xjBFTY8KJWwYn83adSt5rpsv7V9YMbcR5BxMN"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="iw/61Iq66Vy2NfhSoWyxGQ==cb7QlJhiEJtU6e2RQMeIZdaWdObaQch0i4Jqd3+ylbbCxg3PhLFEtgofMJ2kBEdt1RC"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
