---
title: "You Own You"
date: "2021-08-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-08-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24731"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24731"
---

One of the few things that libertarians get right is that the foundation
of Western civilization is private property. They claim this is a
universal reality, which is clearly incorrect, but it is true with
regards to Western civilization. The assumption that a man owns the
produce of his labor is the main difference between Europeans and the
other people of the world. It forms the foundation of law and the logic
of political organization, in addition to being the bedrock of Western
economic systems.

What libertarians get wrong is that you can create a society where
government *only* protects private property and does nothing else. As
with so many things, they get the causal relationship backwards. Like
everything else about human society, the concept of private property is
downstream from biology and culture. Therefore, the primary reason to
have a state is to defend the people and their way of life. Private
property is one attribute of Western people’s way of life.

Putting that aside, the ape historians in the glorious future will no
doubt trace the decline of Western man to the decline in private
property. It will not begin with socialism or other economic concepts.
Those are far downstream from what really matters to a people and their
way of life. The Nordic people made socialism work while at the same
time maintaining the concept of private property. They simply struck a
different balance between property and culture than other occidentals

The erosion of this key facet of the West starts further up the chain of
causality at the cultural level. This is where the abstract concept of
property exists, the platonic form of private property. This is where
the wreckers and subversive have gnawed away at the concept in little
ways, thus making it less clear downstream. As a result, the idea of
private property has slowly receded from the public discourse with
regards to politics and economics, even within socialist debates.

Take, for example, the internet. It exists because thousands of people
working in government institutions invented a way to link computers into
a network. This is why the internet is a public good. It is the creation
of public institutions, in the same way the highway system is a public
good. The internet was further built out by private companies seeking to
profit from the exchange of information, much in the same way merchants
use the highway system to profit from commerce.

This is true with regards to e-commerce. Jeff Bezos is able to hurl
himself to the edge of the atmosphere in a giant phallus, because he got
rich selling stuff on-line. Like all large corporations, he also bought
indulgences from the government, in order to gain an advantage over
rivals. First it was not paying sales tax and then he moved onto direct
subsidies from state and local government for his supply chain. Like
other big retailers. Amazon would not exist without government subsidy.

Amazon, however, is the exception. The rest of the tech oligarchs made
their money stealing the property of others. Facebook, for example,
sells the property of its users to companies looking for data on the
population. They call this marketing revenue, but in reality, it is just
theft. They steal the labor of their users and then sell it to
interested parties without the knowledge of their users. It is a form of
slavery in which the user base volunteers to give away their labor to
the platform owner.

Many will push back against this characterization. After all, they will
say, the service is free, and the real product Facebook is selling is
their own creation. They use their technology to capture human activity.
Then they make it accessible in a friendly format for their actual
customers, the people paying them. The users, because they are choosing
to use the platform, are choosing to abide by an agreement they never
read and therefore agree to allow Facebook to steal their property.

That right there is how the concept of private property is eroded at the
abstract layer of Western civilization. Most people, even classical
liberal types, think what the tech companies are doing is legitimate
commerce. They have accepted this degraded version of property that
carves out an exception to the laws covering property to allow for what
amounts to theft. If Claude-Frédéric Bastiat was sent through the time
portal to this age, he would call the internet “legal plunder.”

That is what we are seeing, legal plunder. Property is the product of
human labor, both physical labor and mental labor. The business owner,
the man who organizes men and material to produce goods and services,
sees the return on his intellectual labor in the form of profit. It is
his ideas and organizational talent that makes the enterprise possible
and maintains its operations. The Marxists always attacked this idea but
could never get around the reality of intellectual property being the
fruit of labor.

Instead, the way around this problem is to attack the concept that you
own you and therefore you own your labor. If Facebook can watch you
on-line, track your activity through your mobile device, then sell this
activity to their customers, it means one of two things. Either you no
longer own you or we no longer have private property. After all, your
activity is the product of your labor, so if you own you, then you own
your activity and Facebook is stealing. Otherwise, you no longer own
you.

If we return to the original Western concept of property, then you not
only own your activity but also your reputation and your defining
attributes. If a company wishes to use these things in a product, then
they would need to strike a deal with you in the same way they would if
they wanted your physical labor. If Facebook wanted to sell your data,
they would need to get your permission every time they sold your data.
The mobile devise makers would have to pay you to use their phones.

Of course, this is not present reality. The assumption is that you do
not, in fact, own you, so all of this is perfectly normal. The reason
enterprising lawyers have not proposed a novel legal theory to the court
based on the ancient concepts of private property is that no one
questions the right of the tech companies to harvest your property. The
state is acting on this new normal as well. New laws, for example, have
been passed to require alcohol tracking devices in new cars.

A world in which you do not own you is called a penitentiary. The phrase
“lock down” was quickly normalized, despite being a prison term, because
the population has been habituated to the idea that they do not own
themselves. Of course, the state can lock you in your home. After all,
they can determine your associations and they allow private enterprise
to spy on you in your home. You don’t own you. Like a pet, you are the
property of powerful interests, and you must do as you are trained.

The point of the state is to preserve the people and their way of life.
This is its primary reason to exist. The secondary and tertiary reasons,
like crime control and tending to the poor are all dependent on the
people and their way of life. The defense of property is one of those
attributes of culture the state must defend. The failure of the elites
to defend the people and their way of life starts with this Western
notion that you own you and all that you produce. That failure is the
death of the West.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="B3+hC654hj9Aa5MQeQpGog==cb7fYrFpI2agnlfpF4GHbfBRUOuhRdgpkHGqMaKBlGCeUnJAY/Hp5I+dXXMzkvr9lau"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="deHkXPv0nMm2QrH2xiISEw==cb7yQ2qxHE6niHz+z8XJvWs2XW+6XajOyD9IYSfASv8JYv60H+Vi846KUix8hCOrIg/"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
