---
title: "Great Debate"
date: "2021-08-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-08-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Religion
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24835"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24835"
---

Note: We have a cornucopia of new content this week. The Taki
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/protector-of-strangers/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> is about our new moral
imperative to love strangers over our friends and family. Then there is
the Sunday
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/402405" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">podcast</a> up behind the green door. There is a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/405855" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">bonus post</a> up this morning on the cult sci-fi move
The Matrix. This has gone out to
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu/the-matrix"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Buy Me A Beer</a> patrons as well.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Almost twenty years ago, John Derbyshire <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/the-marx-of-the-anti-semites/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">reviewed</a> Kevin MacDonald’s book
*Culture of Critique* for American Conservative. It has one of the best
headlines ever written for a right-wing publication. The review itself
was not favorable to MacDonald’s theory on Jewish evolutionary strategy,
so it has been condemned by anti-Semites, which is a shame because it
offers an important insight. For some, the “Jew thing” is a debilitating
neurosis that cripples the victim’s ability to reason.

An example of this was on display Saturday night when Jared Taylor
debated E. Michael Jones on the question of race. Specifically, the
topic was “is race real and does it matter?” Taylor was on the side of
race realism and Jones was supposed to be on the side of race denialism.
It did not quite work out that way as Jones quickly shifted the
conversation away from race to his own theories about the Jews. E.
Michael Jones has a very serious case of the Jew thing.

The format was for each man to give a 20-minute opening presentation and
then they would take turns responding to one another. Taylor was in the
affirmative, so he went first and put on a near perfect presentation
explaining the biological reality of race and the societal implications
of racial differences. Even for those very familiar with the human
sciences, it was an entertaining and informative presentation. It is the
sort of thing you can send around to people curious the topic.

Jones opened up with a strange story about daylight savings time in
Indiana in order to establish what he calls categories of the mind.
These are definitions we invent that have no relation to physical
reality. It appears he was trying to reformulate the logical positivists
tripartite classification of knowledge. There are things that are
tautologically true, things that are true because of an agreed upon set
of logical rules and then things that are cognitively meaningless.

Jones reformulates it to be things that are categories of the mind and
things he thinks ought to be important. For example, race, regardless of
the biological realty behind it, is a category of the mind. It matters
only because we think about it, like daylight savings time or the time
of day. Catholic dogma, on the other hand, matters whether we think of
it or not, so we ought to think about it. Of course, anything that Jones
does not like is declared a category of the mind and he dismisses it.

There is an argument that much of what gets put into the category of
race is contextual, a result of history and culture. This is the basis
of biological denialism on the Left, where they claim differences in the
races and sexes are cultural artifacts. The problem with this is that it
conflates two related, but cognitively different things. Biological
race, in this case, is different from social concepts of race. By
conflating the two, biology is made to disappear in the fog of social
criticism regarding race.

This was the game Jones was playing. He made a lot of noise about how
race is used to harm white societies, so he agued race must be ignored.
Here he commits a second logical fallacy. Even if discussions of race
are engineered to harm white interests, it does not logically follow
that white people should deny the reality of race. This is where the Jew
thing begins to pop. Jones asserts that Jews invented the concept of
race to harm white people, so the Jew thing requires him to oppose race.

After the opening statements, the second hour was mostly Jones ranting
and raving about Jews, even dropping some epithets along the way.
Whenever the moderator would return the conversation to the topic, Jones
would go off on a rant about how the Jews were the great enemy and we
must pretend race is not real in order to defend the white race from
Jews. Along the way he conceded everything Taylor said about the reality
of race, but Jones kept insisting it should not matter.

In all the noise and distraction what became clear is that Jones knows
very little about race or race realism. He also made bizarre claims
about the subject. For example, he claimed race was introduced in
America by Jews. He also claimed the ancients had no concept of race.
This is left-wing nonsense that has no basis in fact. His comments about
intelligence revealed he knows nothing about the topic. His claims were
the sorts of things that work on stupid people who share his beliefs.

This is the tragedy of the Jew thing. Once the victim is afflicted with
it, they can think of nothing other than the subject of their obsession.
The debate was supposed to be about race, but Jones kept trying to make
it about Jews. Not just about Jews in the racial context either. Like a
dog returning to his vomit, Jones kept returning to his pet theory that
Judaism is a conspiracy against the world. Not *Jews*, as according
Jones race is not real, but *Judaism*, which is like a magic spell that
he fights alone.

Of course, Jones has his fans. That is the other side of the Jew thing.
People with it will overlook anything in those who supply them with
content. His mad hatter act is lost on his fans, who only hear the
J-word when he speaks. You get the sense that those with the Jew thing
will become physically ill if they are not constantly hearing
anti-Semitic material, so they need it constantly pipped into their
brains. As a result a bellowing crackpot like Jones gets their full
attention.

There are people who have reasoned critiques of Jews in Western
societies. There are lots of Jews who have addressed the issue. It is a
legitimate question, but one gets the sense that the mission of E.
Michael Jones is to make it impossible to have a reasoned discussion on
the topic. After all, who would want to be lumped in with a mad man who
screams at the Passover display at the local grocery store? Jones
manages to give bigotry a bad name, which is quite accomplishment.

All of that said, Jones has a point that he may not understand or simply
not care to discuss and that is the reality of race is insufficient on
its own. If being right about the facts of life mattered, this world
would not exist. The radicals would have been routed a long time ago.
Public discourse in all human society is about morality. Who are we and
what defines us is what matters. Repeating the facts of biology can only
matter if they have an impact on the morality of the people.

This has always been the failing of the Right. They have always assumed
that once they proved their case, the other side would have no choice
but to throw down their weapons and embrace them as brothers. This is
not reality. Unless one can connect biological reality with morality,
they exist in two separate domains. The race realists have yet to
attempt this connection. This should be where the militant Christians
step into the breech, but people like Jones make that difficult.

Finally, Jones made a big issue of Taylor’s unwillingness to address the
question of Jews within the context of race realism. This is a fair
point, but Jones then asserted it was because Taylor is part of the
global Jewish conspiracy. This is where you cannot help but wonder if
Jones does this to avoid defending his position. It is a distraction to
deflect attention from his faulty logic to something else. This could
have been an interesting gambit, but the Jew thing got the better of
him.

The fact is, race realism makes a lot of sense when comparing Africans
with all other human groups. Africans are the great outlier in the human
family. It starts to break down when you compare other groups. East
Asian are different from Europeans, but they bring none of the social
pathology of Africans. What is the argument against mixing Asians with
Europeans? What about West Asians and Europeans? This is a valid line
off attack on the race realist position.

In the end, the debate is worth watching, if only for Taylor’s opening.
It is a pity that Jones is not a more honest and balanced person, as it
would be interesting to see someone approach this topic from traditional
Christian ethics. If we are ever going to make the leap from facts to
values, this is a debate that needs to be had. Otherwise, biological
reality will remain ignored, even as we careen into the abyss. Maybe
this debate will inspire someone to ponder the subject.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="fCJFbCJnHFeZPNH2h2XRGw==cb7JZpZc44Ge6d591crRAAjXu98jSChoO15I1VAdSsDwAfhxCEKkZze9j4jU5jruURs"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="xwUZTp6Q8MEU3uvCHrl0cw==cb77KyllwJqbxKMrFdW0MH1MVQvrCNN+bE7KgW7wiNTQ3getakMdwBAAXTvvII4Gx9b"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
