---
title: "The Cult Of Safety"
date: "2021-01-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-01-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22667"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22667"
---

For most of human history, the focus of society was on the material
side. Progress was about increasing the material wellbeing of people. In
fact, political philosophy was solely focused on material well-being.
The great battle in the West was over what sort of political economy
would provide the most stuff for the most people. Eventually, liberal
democracy won over communism. Then the debate subtly changed from
material well-being to the overall safety of people. Safety is the new
goal.

For example, an increasingly common thing if you work in an office is
the notice that the vents will be cleaned one night. You are told to
expect some disruption of your day or maybe some things will be moved
around in the office. A crew comes in to clean the vents for so everyone
is safe. Residential rental properties are now required in most states
to have the dryer vents cleaned once a year. In some states, home owners
are required to do this too. Vent cleaning is a thing now.

It is more than just a thing. It is a booming little niche business.
According to one of the rapidly growing <a
href="https://dvwfranchise.com/2019/12/why-the-dryer-vent-cleaning-industry-is-here-to-stay/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">vent cleaning companies</a>, the demand
for vent cleaning is growing at close to four percent per year. They say
that the increased awareness to the dangers posed by home clothes dryers
is what is driving the growth. The claim is the number of accidents
caused by these appliances is making people suspicious of what’s
happening in those vents, so they want all the vets cleaned regularly.

Of course, This is true to a great degree. In the office space, people
have come to believe that whatever is being cleaned out of those heat
and air conditioning ducts is bad for the people inside the offices.
Sick building syndrome is one of those things people have come to accept
without question. The same is true of the dangers posed by the common
household dryer. Mention this to someone and they will claim that
clothes dryers cause a lot of fires every year.

Interestingly, none of this is true. According to <a
href="https://www.usfa.fema.gov/prevention/outreach/clothes_dryers.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">the government</a>, there are about 2900
dryer fires per year. There is no data on fires caused by debris or dust
in the ventilation ducts of buildings. The damage resulting from those
dryer fires total $35 million per year. Only about a third is caused by
too much fuzz in the dryer vent, so that means it is a $12 million
problem. Put another way, we have a $350 million dollar industry to
solve a problem a bit less serious than bathtub drownings.

The other odd thing about the vent cleaning craze is that people don’t
bother questioning it. They just assume it is a real thing. If you ask
someone about the dryer vent business, they will fight you about the
facts, claiming that clothes dryers have always been a menace. If you
point out the facts, they get mad at you, as if you are questioning a
tenant of their religion. Seemingly out of nowhere, vent cleaning has
become an important part of keeping us safe.

That is the key to it. Safety has become something of a religion. After
all, you can never be too safe. We know this because we are constantly
being told by the mass media and our government that we can never be too
safe. We spent trillions waging a crusade against Muslims because we had
to be safe from terror. We are now spending trillions on Covid, so we
can be safe from illness. We’re all in this together, whether we like it
or not, because our safety is what matters.

This explains, in part, the bizarre over reaction we saw from our rulers
over the protests in Washington. These are the high priests of the cult
of safety. They live the safest of lives and depend on faith in safety
for their existence. This reminder that no one can ever be truly safe,
especially the rulers of a society, was like telling them that their
gods are completely fake. They proved that was a lie by turning their
palaces into fortified bunkers guarded by heavily armed soldiers.

An easy to miss subtext to the continued lockdowns is the claim that
working at home is safer than going to the office. Children at school
skin knees and bump their heads, which does not happen when schools are
closed. Fewer people commuting means fewer car accidents. The annual flu
has been eradicated, they claim, because everyone stays home, instead of
mingling with the public. Even if our heroes defeat Covid, staying home
is just safer and safer is always better.

There is an obvious problem with this. It is really hard to run a human
society when everyone is locked in their pods. Some people can work at
home, for sure, but most people need supervision. We are social animals
and our sense of self is tied to our participation in our group. This
extends to society as a whole. People in isolation from one another or
isolated into little tribes lose their group identity. They begin to
take on the mentality of prisoners, rather than citizens.

There are also the diminishing returns. The dryer vent business is a
great example of how not to solve a problem. An iron rule of life is the
solution can never be more expensive than the problem. The dryer vent
issue is a great example of how the price of being safer far outweighs
the value of being safer. We have long since passed the point of
diminishing returns regarding safety. Since there is no limiting
principle to the religion of safety, we keep trying anyway, despite the
cost.

An easy to overlook angle here is the fact that these efforts to
insulate ourselves from risk must fail. The dominant justification for
the current arrangements is that it is making us safer. At some point,
something bad happens and people will suddenly be less safe. A
recession, for example. The gods of safety will be proven to be false or
feckless gods. Faith depends on confirmation and nothing harms a
religion like a bit of disconfirmation, which in this case is
inevitable.

Then again, perhaps we have reached the point in our development that
the Eloi reached in the novel Time Machine. The protagonist, having
observed the Eloi, the humans of the future, noted that “strength is the
outcome of need; security sets a premium on feebleness.” That is modern
people. We are now too weak and feeble to question our arrangements.
Instead, all that matters is the sense of safety and security, whether
is real or imagined. Safety is now our god.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="KSc0rbnonoFR/h8DiProYg==cb7t7myimWMAfI1ksTu8cZMRqSapjlccmDUkXwsFHrvqHv6vX/un+pA79hT6SCmCB2E"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="wyY+l9Bv8BhO0BNLldxq5g==cb700mXcsH2r8Y8LQgrFoSYHl/6Atlhol2XHWJaj8eInojjwmXafQEuY6lJTkxlPEtV"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For sites like this to exist, it requires people like you chipping in a
few bucks a month to keep the lights on and the people fed. It turns out
that you can’t live on clicks and compliments.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you don’t want to commit to a subscription, make a one
time donation. Or, you can send money to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432
Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432. You can also use <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">PayPal</a> to send a few
bucks, rather than have that latte.
