---
title: "The Final Chapter"
date: "2021-06-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-06-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24117"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24117"
---

<span style="color: #ff0000;">**Note:**</span> I will be on the <a
href="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPAO-LHJbi5mPj1OLMLRUKQ/videos"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Restoring Order</a> podcast tonight at
7PM Eastern time. The show will run for about 90 minutes. You can watch
it here. I also have a new
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/posts/357227" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">post</a> up behind the green door. This a review of the
political movie Duck Soup.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The 2020 drama
*<a href="https://www.imdb.com/title/tt8368512/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">The Courier</a>* is one of those films that is
remarkable for what it does not do, rather than what it does do. It is a
straight forward drama unburdened by Progressive politics. It sticks
fairly close to the original story, without inserting magical people or
performing a sex change on the principals. In fact, all but two of the
characters are white males. The two females are supporting roles. In
today’s climate, that is something close to a miracle.

The story itself is familiar to those who grew up in the Cold War, even
if you are not familiar with this particular story. It is the story of
[Greville Wynne](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greville_Wynne), a
British salesman turned spy, who traveled in and out of the Soviet Union
in the 1960’s for business, but he was also carrying top-secret
information. We get the familiar cat and mouse stuff that is a staple of
spy movies, along with the human drama that comes from a reluctant
civilian caught up in the spy game.

It is a solidly told spy drama with competent acting and directing. What
makes it remarkable is what it says about the current age. There are
people alive today who recall the events portrayed in the movie. Most
Americans alive today lived through some portion of the Cold War.
Despite this, that era feels as familiar as the Middle Ages or Ancient
Greece. The Cold War West, at least the English speaking portion, is not
just a different time. It is a different world.

The weird thing about the Cold War is that as soon as it was over, there
was no reminiscing about it or how it altered society. It was so quickly
forgotten that young people could be forgiven for not knowing it
existed. Young people in America know more about civil rights stuff and
certain events in World War II than they do about what happened just a
few decades ago. Even the collapse of the Soviet Union has been hurled
down the memory hole.

It is an odd thing, given that the Cold War was the longest American
war. It lasted roughly from March 5, 1946 to November 9, 1989. Most
people date the start to the speech given by Winston Churchill at
Westminster College in Fulton Missouri during a tour of the United
States. This is when he uttered the famous words “Iron Curtain” which
became synonymous with the Soviet Union. The end, of course, is marked
as the day the Berlin Wall came down.

For close to half a century, the United States was on a war footing.
Rather than demobilize after the defeat of Japan and Germany, America
retooled the entire nation to fight communism in general and the Soviets
in particular. For two generations it was the superstructure of society.
The economy, the culture and politics operated within the struggle
against Russia. It is the American empire’s Peloponnesian War, except
this time the democracies beat the Spartans.

One reason why this event was so quickly forgotten is that it appears to
have been a necessary restraint on the worst elements in American
democracy. Like a dog that got off the leash, there has been no turning
back for those elements, suddenly freed from the restraints of the Cold
War. The crusades against the Muslims were an attempt to put the crazies
back on the rope, but it failed. Those crazies are now threatening to
take over the whole country.

Every society has a portion that is mentally unstable. They are
functional and can be put to good use, but they need structure. Religion
has been the primary way to keep the unstable on the straight and
narrow. With the decline of Christianity, mass movements in America have
been the alternative. The various social reform movements in America,
dating back to the 19th century were a way to give the unstable the
structure they needed and put them to good use.

Of course, without a limiting principle, mass movements quickly turn
into a disaster as the fanatics never know when to quit. They always
look for some next step in their quest for salvation, The obvious
example is how the temperance societies turned into outright bans on
alcohol. Reducing public drunkenness was a worthy goal, but banning
alcohol completely was lunacy in stilts. We are seeing this happen today
with crazies rampaging through the streets, howling like lunatics.

That really is what the Cold War was for America. Without it, if the
Cold War had never happened, America probably would have descended into
anarchy and civil war by middle of the 20th century. The threat of
thermonuclear annihilation forced the responsible to keep the unstable
in their cages. It also gave these unstable people options into which
they could express their fanaticism. The obsession with ancient grudges,
for example, could be expressed as neoconservatism.

You could write the story of America as the story of fanaticism. The
first waves of fanatics landed in what is now New England to build their
paradise in the wilderness of the New World. They eventually conquered
the rest of the continent in the name of one cause after another. Then
they conquered the rest of the world, first in the name of democracy
then to free the world of competing lunacy. With no more worlds to
conquer, the fanatics are destroying themselves.

If you look around at the various tribes of lunatics in the pantheon of
modern leftism, the quest for structure is clear. The Antifa goofballs
are motivated by alienation and atomization. They are urban consumers
with no purpose other than to consume. The females howling about male
privilege are unmarried and childless, thus lacking the structure in
which a woman can blossom. The Left is nothing but stray dogs looking
for home, longing for the leash.

This is why the so-called conservatives wanted the war against the
Muslims to be the new Cold War and why they rant about Russia today. As
the late John McCain used to say, they want to be part of a cause bigger
than themselves. A holy cause provides a reason to instill discipline.
It may be what is behind the ruling class paranoia about imaginary white
supremacy. It gives them a purpose and therefore a structure to their
otherwise disorganized minds.

Like the Muslim panic, these new panics – and Covid can be viewed in
this light as well – will fail due to a lack of reality. The Muslims
were never a serious threat to anyone but themselves and maybe their
neighbors. White supremacy is a figment of the fevered imaginations of
liberal women who read too many bodice rippers. Even China is looking
like a poor stand-in for the Devil. These are not real threats, so they
can never be the organizing issue of a new American creed.

What may be happening is the end of one plot line in the American story.
The fanatics who conquered the wilderness to build an empire are in the
last chapter. The rest of the country is now tasked with how to wrap up
this story line. Maybe it will be a new religion for the fanatics to
join. Maybe it will be a reactionary response that relies on force to
subdue the fanatics. Maybe it is a Hobbesian end for a people who
suddenly realize they have no reason to be in the same country.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="uFGFBqPCgUBEJumfFQIZww==cb720FBP85gU2oz/2mgMa+vZlEp5tqHVBkS1nipNjyVJPi4FN65P+JqNfCfi7BDRDnY"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="+anTw5XPdmJ7ZwIvXNgdLg==cb7yqexOokdWxFfK5UG6+2mzn69OfrJIbGTiuyzXtABOoFOsUEZ0E9AmFDAlXbqEhRk"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
