---
title: "The Blood Of Patriots"
date: "2021-01-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-01-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=22458"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=22458"
---

Yesterday, Ashli Babbitt was shot in the neck and died while protesting
inside the Capitol with other protestors. A group of angry Trump
supporters had got into the building and were making a racket. This is
not an unusual occurrence. During the Kavanaugh hearings, Democrats
organized mobs of screeching women to harass Republicans in the halls of
the Capitol. Party media was there to celebrate it as the purest
expression of democracy. It was power to the people time.

That was not the case yesterday, according to the media. Instead, it was
a direct threat to “our” democracy. This is a bit ironic in that the
protests are over the obvious corruption in the election system. The
direct threat to democracy is the people demanding their elections be
fair and honest. That’s why Ashli Babbitt was inside the Capitol making
a racket. Her whole life she had been told this was how citizens angry
at their government demand redress when the system fails.

That is how popular government is supposed to work. The people expect
their government to be responsive to the will of the people. When they
don’t like that they see, they vote for different people to hold office.
If those politicians ignore the people, then the people go bang on their
door and demand redress of their grievances. The politicians then come
out and address their issues. That’s not it works now. Instead, they
open fire on the people like they did yesterday.

Ashli Babbitt was not some drug-addled degenerate, like we saw last
summer, when the ruling class unleashed their mobs on us. She was a
veteran, serving 14 years in the US Air Force, and she was a high-level
security official throughout her time in service. She was like most of
the people at the protest, in that she had bought into what she was told
about America. So much so she signed onto serve in the military and go
overseas in various deployments.

Like most of the protestors, she was there because she had spent her
life playing by the rules and defending those rules. She was there
because the people in charge of maintaining the rules have been
violating those rules. They ignored the official corruption in the 2016
election and they laughed about the grotesque fraud that was plainly
obvious in the 2020 election. Like the rest of those protestors, she was
angry that the politicians were not following the rules.

For her trouble, she died in a pool of her own blood inside what is
supposed to be the people’s house in America. It is a bit ironic that a
citizen exercising her rights would be murdered by an agent of a corrupt
system that is now infringing on her rights. Murder is the right word
here. The man who shot her was under no threat and was on the other side
of a locked and barricaded door. The murderer was part of Vice President
Pence’s security detail. The video, for those interested, is
[here](https://gab.com/BostonDave/posts/105514667477593538).

There will be no charges against the murderer. Unlike the cops involved
in the George Floyd case or any number of others, this coward will not
be fired from his job or face criminal charges.
<a href="https://twitter.com/Mike_Pence/status/1347035264875696128"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">He will probably get a medal</a>. He will
not have his face and address plastered all over the media, so that he
can be attacked by mobs. There will be no media orchestrated campaign to
defund the police over this. Most likely, the whole thing will be put on
mute so that the public forgets it.

Of course, unlike George Floyd, Ashli Babbitt will not get three
nationally televised funerals and be treated as a fallen hero. That
honor goes to drug-addled criminals who overdose in police custody. In
this America, patriots who served their country and exercise their
rights get gunned down by agents of the state. This woman, this patriot,
bleeding out in the halls of the Capitol, murdered by an agent of the
state, is the perfect image of what has gone terribly wrong in America.

No doubt, millions of decent people who sympathized with her cause are
saddened by this terrible tragedy. It did not have to come to this. This
was not an accident. This was not a terrible misfortune. The people on
the other side of that door, the people who celebrate the murderer of
Ashli Babbitt now, they did this. They created this crisis that
threatens to plunge to country into a death spiral. They had choices and
they had plenty of warning, but they refused to listen and now Ashli
Babbitt is dead.

Be angry, but also remember Ashli Babbitt. The Republican Party will not
remember her or even mention her name. The media will work hard to make
sure you forget her name and how she died yesterday. Dissidents need to
remember her so we never forget why we are angry and why we are
dissidents. We are angry with a system that thinks it is okay to murder
citizens who play by the rules and exercise their rights as citizens to
petition their government for redress.

*The people cannot be all, and always, well informed. The part which is
wrong will be discontented in proportion to the importance of the facts
they misconceive. If they remain quiet under such misconceptions it is a
lethargy, the forerunner of death to the public liberty. We have had 13
states independent for 11. years. There has been one rebellion. That
comes to one rebellion in a century and a half for each state. What
country before ever existed a century and half without a rebellion? And
what country can preserve its liberties if their rulers are not warned
from time to time that their people preserve the spirit of resistance?
Let them take arms. The remedy is to set them right as to facts, pardon
and pacify them. What signify a few lives lost in a century or two? The
tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of
patriots and tyrants. It is its natural manure. *
