---
title: "Big Con"
date: "2021-05-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-05-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=23811"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=23811"
---

Every once in a while, a post or series of posts comes along that
captures why conservatism never amounted to much. This <a
href="https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/how-to-fix-big-tech-without-big-government/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> in the ironically named American
Conservative is a good example of the genre. The topic is how to deal
with the privatization of authoritarian power, primarily in Silicon
Valley. The argument put forward is that using the state to tame these
rogue companies is morally wrong, so we have to find some new way to
contend with these out-of-control tech firms.

The first thing you should notice is the style is exactly what we get
whenever the topic of immigration in on the table. The obvious answer is
dismissed. In the case of immigration, that means shutting down the
border and cracking down on employers who use helot labor. The open
borders crowd always says that is impossible or harmful in some way.
Instead, they offer a collection of overly complex solutions that have
no chance of succeeding but will keep the punditry busy.

In the case of Big Tech, we have laws on the books to put an end to this
reign of terror, but enforcing those is socialism, according to the
usual suspects. We cannot have that, even if it would work. Instead, let
us have a twenty-year series of international commissions to study
technical standards and pass a bunch of laws that no one reads, but have
cool names like “Data Portability Act”. In other words, the people who
cannot build a wall along the border are going to fix the internet.

Interestingly, the rodents from Conservative Inc. always use the same
trick the Left is so fond of using, which is the false dichotomy. “We
can shut ourselves off from the world or embrace globalism” is how they
frame trade. “We can become a hermit nation or remain a nation of
immigrants” is how they frame immigration. Now it is “We can choose
central planning or preserve an open internet” with Big Tech. It is the
same partisan game the Left plays, just tailored for a middle-class
white audience.

The fact is, enforcing Section 230 of the Communication Decency Act as
intended puts a halt to the most egregious violations of our rights.
Twitter can choose to be a publisher or an open platform. If it is the
former, they can censure their platform however they like, but they are
accountable for the content. If they choose to be an open platform like
Gab, then they get the protection of Section 230. There is no need to
reinvent the internet to solve the biggest problem with Big Tech.

Similarly, the obvious collusion that goes on with these big firms could
be crushed with the use of existing law. There are plenty of examples of
the tech companies colluding with one another to ban people from their
platforms. If we can give a cop 20-years on civil rights violations for
shooting a fleeing suspect, we can give the harpies of Silicon Valley a
few years for violating the civil rights of Alex Jones. One lawsuit is
all that would be required to end that practice and restore some sanity.

Of course, the author of the AC piece is clearly trying to strike the
libertarian position, which is a blend of hiding under the bed and
shilling for global capital. This is what is wrong with the
libertarian-conservative commentariat. They are not interested in
advocating conservative interests. Instead, they are focused on making
sure their corporate donors are free of government interference. If that
means the rights of conservatives are trampled, well “whoopsie!”

The writer of the AC piece is someone calling himself Zach Graves. He is
head of policy at the Lincoln Network. You always have to be suspicious
of any group using the name Lincoln and this is no exception. As we saw
with the Lincoln Project, these groups tend to attract the very worst
people. In this case, this is a <a
href="https://projects.propublica.org/nonprofits/organizations/472239840"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">not-for-profit</a> located in San
Francisco, conveniently near Silicon Valley. A Loren Graves, presumably
the same guy as the writer, is a paid staffer for the group.

Before signing on with the Lincoln Network, Mr. Graves was with
something called
<a href="https://www.rstreet.org/team/zach-graves/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">R Street Institute</a>, which is
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=14998" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">neoconservative front group</a>. The founder of the
Lincoln Network is a man calling himself
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/garrettwjohnson/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Garrett Johnson</a>. He popped out of college into a job
on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, then into a position as the
founder of something called SendHub and now the founder of Lincoln
Network. Nothing strange about this at all. There is no reason to
suspect anything hanky.

This is the problem with conservatism in a nutshell. It has always been
infested with pens for hire. This bit of corporate marketing posted at
American Conservative is just a paid advertisement masquerading as
commentary. To their credit, the site does acknowledged that they were
paid to run it by
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ewing_Marion_Kauffman_Foundation"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation</a>,
which is a pro-business non-profit in Missouri. There is a good bet that
they bankroll the R Street Institute to some degree, given their
location.

This is the problem with subjecting everything to the marketplace. When
the highest bidder gets to determine public morality, no one can ever
question the morality of the highest bidder. Public opinion becomes
another commodity to be traded, rather than a genuine exchange of ideas.
The founder of The Lincoln Network would be happy to promote communism
if that pays better than shilling for Big Tech. He is just face
purchased on the market to make the brochure look good.

Similarly, the writers and “policy wonks” at these shops are just pens
for hire, with a set of specialties. “Need generic libertarian babble
about technology? No problem, we have Zach Graves. That is his
specialty.” R Street puts him on the UPS truck and ships him off to a
Silicon Valley non-profit. Like the economy as a whole, the marketplace
of ideas has become a pirate’s cove. Everything is for sale and
everything can be purchased, if the price is right. The consequences are
for the suckers to bear.

This is what conservatism should oppose. One basic tenet of conservatism
is that there is a transcendent moral truth. That means it is
indifferent to the marketplace. it also means that truth itself is not
up for bid. Once you concede this point, you are no longer on the Right,
but just another kiosk in the bazaar if increasingly bizarre ideas. The
way to end the pirate’s cove is to shut it down and hang the pirates.
That’s the starting point for conservatism, if it is to be anything more
than another grift.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="5tLD4Ho9ZxdIXXCKs/Hi7w==cb7szp1qtdHHGJy4kRLFwhVWXw8lifpd96hXfgEXE9sHgM7qQQ1s2KqyOTBgbpo1oXK"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="AwHkMjnNgfgTm7eR8cnRiA==cb7wG9FHb5YKvNZXFa0oBDTNDHziFzcOPnXJdEief8l3HKeQwlZ6FyXybCg5hwNFrdg"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
