---
title: "Who Are We?"
date: "2021-03-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-03-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=23241"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=23241"
---

The failures of conservatism are a popular topic on this side of the
great divide, mostly because most on this side passed through
conservatism. While it is true that an understanding of human nature
leads to a traditionalist political outlook, it is also true that having
a conservative inclination leads one to dissident politics. Russell Kirk
was right that conservative politics is the end result that begins with
a certain attitude, a perspective on society that naturally leads to
right-wing politics.

This attitude begins with the understanding that all human societies
have an identity, an instinctive answer to the question, “Who are you?”
That is closely tied with the understanding that someone is always in
charge. This is where modern conservatism goes off the rails. Modern
conservatives are terrified to even think about identity, because they
are terrified of being accused of having one. Identities are exclusive
and that is the opposite of inclusive, the greatest thing ever.

This peaks through in this [American Conservative
post](https://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/class-not-color-at-state/)
about the lack of diversity at the US State Department. The post is in
response to [this
post](https://www.politico.com/news/2021/03/16/state-department-diversity-problem-476161)
in the far-left DC scandal sheet called Politico. The claim is that
State has a systemic racism problem. The conservative response to that
is always some form of the old internet meme, “Democrats are the Real
Racists.” In this case, it is those well-bred white people popping out
of elite colleges, who then go into the State Department.

The post is interesting in that it gives some insight into how the
American foreign service operates, but it amplifies left-wing morality,
because the writer comes at the topic from something other than a
conservative attitude. A genuine man of the Right would say that the
State Department is a vital ruling class institution. It represents to
the world the interests of the American ruling class. The reason it is
full of Jews and Protestants is that is who runs the country.

This attitudinal deficiency also leads to errors in tactics. When a
left-wing site like Politico starts bellowing about the lack of
diversity in the ruling class, it is intended to distract, not spawn a
dialogue. Since thinking about who is really in charge of the country is
anathema to the modern conservative mind, they are more than happy to
chase the diversity stick tossed by the people in charge. The result is
more mewing about the lack of diversity, as if anyone cares.

This is something that modern conservatives have never grasped about
their role in this relationship with their alleged opponents. Their
primary duty is to keep anyone from talking about who is in charge. This
is a key part of the managerial state. From the outside it always looks
like a committee composed of faceless bureaucrats. In a world where it
is never clear who is in charge, it is near impossible for the people to
pin the blame on the people who are actually responsible.

Further, when the question “who are we?” is only asked in secret, the
answer is only uttered in secret. That AmCon post gently touches on this
fact, but it should have been the focus of the post. Instead, it is only
hinted at, while the writer does the old DR3 and championing diversity.
It never seems to occur to him that the people running the State
Department have an interest in running the system as they do. That maybe
the people in charge know who they are and intend to remain in charge.

Note also the reliance on the fantasy of the meritocracy. There is the
belief among conventional conservatives that the alternative to
Progressive domination of the institutions is meritocracy. Like the
market place, a meritocracy is a man made thing, which serves the
interests of those who make it. It is not some magically occurring bit
of nature that grows in the wild. A meritocracy is always a tool of the
ruling class used to perpetuate their position at the top of the social
hierarchy.

The elephant in the room, of course, is the question of diversity. Right
after “who we are?” and “who is in charge?” comes the question, “What
are the rules?” Those rules are inevitably aimed at maintaining the
answer to the first two questions. The reason the ruling class is happy
to see unlimited diversity outside their ranks, but no diversity inside
their ranks, is they have to intention of stepping aside. The people
outside the walls only matter when they cause a ruckus or make
threatening noises.

In other words, the opportunity here was to point out that diversity is
poison and serious people avoid it at all cost. The people running
important institutions like the State Department, Wall Street or the
media get this. The reason these institutions look the way they do at
the top is the people in charge are serious. They know diversity of any
kind, especially diversity of opinion, is bad for them, so they make
sure to root out any diversity in their ranks. There is a lesson there
for all of us.

20th century conservatism was a failure in large part because it either
refused or was temperamentally unable to tackle the basic questions of
human organization. That starts with understand who we are and what are
our interests. Then it quickly moves to deciding what sort of people
need to be in charge and what sort of rules must be in place in order to
maintain the resulting society. Conservatism was always happy to leave
the questions unasked, so they were always a leaf in the wind.

This is why any alternative to the current regime must first start with
a sense of identity, a point around which people can rally. This is why
communists focused so much attention of class identity. It is also why
bourgeoise intellectuals were so enamored with communism, despite not
being working class. The draw of identity is natural. People with no
natural sense of identity envy those that have one. That is the power of
group identity and why it must be the core of any political movement.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A new year brings new changes. The same is true for this site as we
adjust to the reality of managerial authoritarianism. That means
*embracing crypto* for when the inevitable happens and the traditional
outlets are closed. Now more than ever it is important to support the
voices that support you.
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Five bucks a month</a> is not
a lot to ask. If you prefer other ways of donating, look at
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">the donate page</a>. Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ZehTWvGmYTH7XzFD3UOh5g==cb7HaEByH9YBt7kzyRa+AyGNLzbPCc8UBwB1kpN9Q2cimwiCpQtHnIllPTqcxl2MsFy"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="a+b9DROlOZ22CcvQbdXsJg==cb7KXNJfdbDnEeHrOLvql3k/4mc68U3faMKBaTv7c5lvO/6pHtLVTRuVj7yCEkCh9RF"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
