---
title: "J. D. Vance"
date: "2021-07-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2021-07-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=24385"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=24385"
---

It is tempting to judge a man by his enemies, especially if his enemies
are the sorts of people who should be the enemy of the decent. Logic
seems to dictate that if the worst people are opposed to someone or some
idea, then there must be some merit to that person or idea. The worst
people operate exclusively from self-interest. What is good for the
worst is probably not good for the rest, so therefore what is bad for
the worst must be good for the rest, if only that it diminishes the
worst.

The great lesson of the George W. Bush years is that the worst people
can hate someone who deserves to be hated. Every far-left crank in
America was howling in agony about the Bush administration. Their
complaints were every bit as insane as the people making them, so decent
people just assumed Bush was a good guy. It turns out that sometimes the
enemy of your enemy is just another enemy. Bush, of course, was a
disaster, the worst President in American history.

That is something to keep in mind now that J. D. Vance has decided to
run for office in his former home state of Ohio. Vance was always
something of a curiosity, having gone from humble beginnings to the
managerial elite, but seeming to maintain a connection with his roots in
the lower class. His book *Hillbilly Elegy* was a hit among the
chattering classes, always looking for some authenticity. It was also
popular with normal people who found it and Vance to be genuine and
thoughtful.

Now Vance is seeking to ride the wave of populist enthusiasm and white
fright to a political career. At first this would seem logical, but just
a few years ago he was an anti-Trump guy, like all the people he now
criticizes. It made sense back then. He was enjoying publicity from the
sorts of people he spent his entire life trying to copy. He had gotten
rich thanks largely to the fact these people helped him along as he went
from the Marines to Yale Law then to Silicon Valley.

He is singing a different tune these days. He is on the Trump train and
talking quite sensibly and credibly about the issues that concern white
people. In fact, he sounds far more sensible than Trump. As a result,
the worst people have started to attack him for his alleged apostacy.
The gargoyle of neoconservatism, Mona Charen, came out last March with
[an attack](https://thebulwark.com/j-d-vance-joins-the-jackals/) on
Vance, calling him and white people jackals. That is an interesting bit
of projection from a blood-thirsty warmonger.

Now we have [this post](https://archive.is/qfMKT) in the Atlantic from
Tom Nichols, or as he prefers the commoners to refer to him, “Five Time
Jeopardy Champion” Tom Nichols. For those unaware, Tom Nichols is
America’s leading expert on being wrong about everything to do with
foreign policy. From his perch on Twitter, when he is not reminding us
that he is a super genius and a five time Jeopardy champion, he tells us
that we have all let him down and no longer
[deserve](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2018/10/tom-nichols-why-im-leaving-republican-party/572419/)
a man like Tom Nichols.

Writing often betrays the image the writer projects and this no truer
than in the case of Tom Nichols. He tries to portray himself as an
intellectual tough guy, but his writing style suggests he is a
hysterical teenage girl. It is not hard to imagine that Atlantic post
being submitted on tear-stained paper with some of the “I’s” being
dotted with little frowny faces. The post is supposed to be about Vance,
but it really about Nichols and his hurt feelings about the populist
rebellion.

Tom Nichols, like David French, is the sort of person the Founders
warned about when discussing democracy. They pointed out that democracy
attracts the worst people who then appeal to the worst instincts of the
people. Liberal democracy is the playground of narcissistic fanatics
whose only interest is in flattering themselves with the applause of the
mobs. Suddenly, all of the worst people are bearing their fangs at J.D.
Vance, so normal people naturally feel disposed towards him.

Of course, another quality of liberal democracy is that it spawns false
opposition like a shark grows teeth. Just ten years ago Conservative
Inc. spawned any number of imitators to steal the energy of the Tea
Party. We see the same thing happening with the different populist
groups. The usual suspects are furiously trying to co-opt the Nick
Fuentes thing with boy-band quality alternatives. [American
Moment](https://www.americanmoment.org/) is what old Cloud People think
young Dirt People will find compelling.

With that in mind, it is wise to be cautious about anyone in the ring
claiming to speak for the great dispossessed. That is one lesson of
Trump. Politics is like a high-end brothel where even the most virtuous
are going to tempted. If Lucifer were tasked with creating a political
system to stock Hell with souls, he would head to Washington to get tips
from the masters. He would probably lose his soul in the bargain. The
point is, even the best of men is no match for the worst of systems.

That said, Vance is making the sort of noises familiar to dissidents. He
is clearly familiar with the dissident subculture as he has used phrases
like “red pill” when describing his political transformation over the
last five years. He hangs out with Tucker Carlson, and he is bankrolled
by Peter Theil. Neither man can be called a dissident, but they are not
lobbing R-bombs at us. Vance defended Nick Fuentes, who has not been
favorable to J.D. Vance, which suggests Vance is more than just
hologram.

Politics for dissidents is always about advancing dissident ideas, so
judging Vance is all about his utility in that cause. Like Trump, he is
willing to drag taboo subjects into the public domain, which is always
good for dissidents. Unlike Trump he seems to have a better feel for his
potential base. Vance is also a younger man who can speak to younger
people, who do not respond to flag waving. Unlike Trump, Vance is not a
man lamenting the loss of the past, but the loss of the present.

You never know what is in a man’s heart, so Vance’s sincerity remains a
question, but he will be useful. Even if Vance is a dissident at heart
and sweeps to a landslide victory, nothing changes for us politically.
The same parasites will be calling white people jackals and pushing
cultural genocide. There is no voting your way out of the defects of
democracy, but democracy can be a bus dissidents ride to the next stop.
As is always the case, the Vance phenomenon is an opportunity.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>. 
 <span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="e0q7KO0iqAuZs9g3LjzZBg==cb7ZsN/dtzu+6Lq+VUnr04LWA9Gxreg7pfOcNatr2ZWbuX0npiDmCSmx7kzWizM9OJl"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="fquaDiRIFpoP1Zm3mKkHng==cb7WukkucD534ivEoyl1e1DfV1aX+PkT6SpDV2pVLUKz6azzDOHG1S1rItSfwJ2xj72"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
