---
title: "Survival Of Rights"
date: "2022-11-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-11-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28720"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28720"
---

**Note \#1:** There will be no more Taki posts. I decided to bring that
to a close in order to focus on other things. There is only so much time
and I was stretched too thin so something had to go. I want to focus
more on the pay-per-view content which has a steadily growing audience.
You can sign up at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note \#2:** I have received a few suggestions about other platforms
like Gum Road and Locals, which is a Rumble creation. I am interested in
any feedback from people familiar with these sites. RamZPaul is on Gum
Road and the Duran guys are on Locals, but I know nothing about these
platforms.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Given the current trajectory, it is reasonable to think that in the not
too distant future some alien race will be digging through the rubble of
humanity trying to figure out what happened to this strange species.
Just as modern archeologists dig through ruins of ancient societies,
trying to figure out what happened, those aliens will be doing the same
with earth. They will dig through whatever is left, things like
buildings, tools and cemeteries, piecing together the story of man.

The thing they will not find among the decaying buildings, rusting
vehicles and collapsed bridges will be piles of human rights. They will
not open a door of some oddly preserved building and find a bunch of
skeletons who had found shelter along with their sacred human rights. In
fact, they will probably find no trace of human rights or any discussion
of the concept. Given that most of our knowledge is now digital, these
sorts of things will be impossible to detect.

The main reason for this is human rights do not exist. They are a thing
that humans invented late in the history of mankind. People say that
human rights are real and point to various authorities to support the
claim, but rights are not real things. They exist only as a figment of
our imagination, like the concept of lust. No other species has this
concept so it is possible the aliens will not understand it either. It
will be as alien to them as our entirely made up concept of human
rights.

That is something to keep in mind when people of the so-called “new
right” go on about the importance of natural rights. Here is an
[example](https://amgreatness.com/2022/10/24/natural-right-and-historicism/)
from Michael Anton where he addresses the idea of historicism. This is
the argument that all human thought is the product of its historical
moment. Men in one period accept certain things to be true that men in a
different period would not accept as true. Loosely put, mankind and its
mental constructs are a product of time and place.

What we think of as conservative in North America rejects this claim. It
starts from the assertion that all men come into this world with natural
rights. The right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness is the
pithy expression of this. The very loose argument here is that the
natural world, including the human place in it, operates from fixed and
observable rules. The laws of nature and nature’s god. From these rules
we can tease out things like the rights of man.

A quite simple example is ownership. You are born into this world as the
property of your parents who created you and raised you. At some point,
you leave the ownership of your parents and become a free man. You own
you. Because you own you, you must own your activity, your labor. If you
own your labor, it stands to reason that you must own the fruits of your
labor. Hence the concept of private property. Ownership traces to the
laws of the universe, which is its authority.

There are similar arguments for all sorts of things we consider to be
natural rights, like equality before the law and self-defense. Some of
these rights have a strong connection to observation of nature. The
right of self-defense is something we can see in all of nature, not just
mankind. The right to a speedy trial and a jury of our peers takes a few
leaps to find some root in the laws of nature. Regardless, the claim is
natural rights are rooted in the authority of nature.

Michael Anton makes two important claims in his response to Paul
Gottfried that are critical to the current crisis. One is that this idea
of natural rights is not time bound as Gottfried claims, but universal
and timeless. Even when we were not aware of them, we had these natural
rights. The other claim is that America, as currently constructed, can
only exist if it is structured around the concept of natural rights. It
is the only way a disparate people can coexist in a single society.

The first argument is what is called a gratuitous assertion. The logic
of natural rights may be timeless, but it has always rested on something
that is not timeless and that is a Christian concept of God and man’s
relationship to God. In fact, it depends on a specific version of
Christian belief. Many Christians reject the idea of a universe defined
by fixed and unchanging rules. Other types of Christian reject that we
can understand these rules, even if such a thing even exists.

The very loose foundation of the natural rights argument is that God is
perfection and therefore he created the world without making mistakes.
This means he has no reason to tinker with the rules. They never change.
Further, when he created the world he had a purpose, just as a carpenter
has a reason to make a cabinet. The world as we see it is not just
random pointlessness. It is a world created with a purpose by God and it
operates by a fixed set of rules.

If you reject this concept of God, then you reject what naturally flows
from it, which is why the concept of natural rights is a cultural
artifact. It is peculiar to European people, especially those west of
the Hajnal line. Eastern Europe does not have a strong natural rights
tradition, because they have a different conception of God. Muslims have
no concept of rights because Allah is unknowable. Islam accepts that the
rules of the universe are unknowable and therefore unpredictable.

In other words, we have no evidence that natural rights are universal
and timeless, because the foundation lies outside of the realm of proof.
If you accept the narrow idea of God and the universe he created, the
natural rights arguments make sense, but if not then these arguments are
nothing more than convenient inventions. The reason the phrase “I know
my rights” means nothing in China is the Chinese lie outside the
timeline of the people who invented the concept.

This brings us to the second point, which is that the only way America
can function is if we all agree on this mental framework. This is the
social contract argument updated for a modern audience, the people who
now live as strangers in their own lands. Instead of the claim that we
voluntarily came together and agreed to live by a set of cultural and
political rules in the same society, the argument now is we better
convince the new majority that we have to live by these rules or else.

In this regard, Anton is correct. The demographic revolution is already
leading to a cultural and political revolution. The only way America
returns to something like its former self is if the new people embrace
the old rules. If Nikki Haley, Hakeem Jeffries, Ilhan Omar and Rashida
Tlaib embrace the logic of Thomas Jefferson, then maybe we can continue
to function by the old rules. If they reject natural rights theory, then
we will need new rules to accommodate the new people.

The fact that we have to have this discussion is bad news for the
natural rights crowd as it assumes the new majority is not embracing
Thomas Jefferson. In fact, they have been busy toppling his statues and
erasing his name from the history books, along with all the other people
responsible for the natural right tradition. Whatever claims one wants
to make about the universality of natural rights, it is clear that the
new people and their enablers are not embracing the concept.

Inadvertently, Anton is confirming Gottfried’s central claim. What we
think of as our natural rights are a product of a specific people living
in a specific time. They are no more universal than conception of God.
Natural rights may be more than just a fad, like powdered wigs or
waistcoats, but they are tied to a people. Like all traditions, they
live on in the memories of the descendents of the people who invented
them and once there are no more descendents to carry on the traditions,
they are gone.

The fact is, natural rights are a thing that come naturally only to
Western people, so they are no more universal than blue eyes. Sure, some
people outside of Europe will have blue eyes or green eyes, but most
will not because the genes for these things dominate only among
Europeans. The same is true for the European understanding of the
universe and man’s natural place in it. Natural rights are the product
of traditions peculiar to European people.

The unanswered question in Anton’s piece and the entirety of the
movement calling itself the “new right” is this. What happens when the
new people reject the Western tradition of natural rights? Should they
be forcibly removed? Should they be compelled to change their ways?
Maybe give up their old gods and go through a rigorous training in
Calvinist religious doctrine? After all, the concept of free choice is
part of the natural rights tradition. What if they choose to reject this
concept?

That brings us back to where we started. If those visiting space aliens
arrive and find natural rights, it will be because they find societies
based on them. Those societies will necessarily be controlled and
dominated by people who invented the concept and make it their purpose
to maintain them, no matter what. Survival of the fittest is just as
much a part of natural law as free speech. More so, in fact. In order
for rights to survive, the people who created them must survive.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="gXyMFwNS7qGLkza1UsGyTA==cb7mmOKm1pmshorFCWXyJkEAIZmYDm3O9cZmhnI07dicCoLWHvwIeddXOVr6jt4Zaj1"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Ba2fsZsW6w18amTR9lGQyg==cb7C0pF64Ep1y2QcPZcGjTXzHA2dVxvVjkxR0XhaIy8FYKESDmA+n9qRWnzO29DWATm"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
