---
title: "AFPAC III"
date: "2022-02-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-02-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=26798"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=26798"
---

**Note:** The normal
<a href="https://www.takimag.com/article/all-hitler-all-the-time/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Taki post</a> is up. This week it is not
tied into the Monday post here, but rather to a special <a
href="https://amgreatness.com/2022/02/26/a-movement-that-must-invent-its-enemies-to-exist/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> over at American Greatness. I
read and reviewed Paul Gottfried’s latest book, [*Antifascism: The
Course of a
Crusade*](https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/antifascism-paul-gottfried/1138715984?ean=9781501759352).
If you can drop a positive comment over there, that would be good. Fair
warning, the comment section there is a full SD below what you get here.
I also have some notes about my trip
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Conferences are an American past time. We have conferences for serious
things like business issues and community topics. We also have
conferences for less serious issues like politics, social issues,
academics, books and hobbies. The conference industry is big business in
America. There are people who make their living organizing the details
of conferences. Every decent sized venue has people dedicated to
managing and directing conferences.

You can rank these things by their production values. The more important
the event the better the production values. The well supported
operations can hire good people and a first-class facility for the
conference. At the other end, the conference is put on by volunteers who
have a passion for the topic. They rent a ballroom at one of the hotels
near the airport and hope to get enough attendees to cover the cost. In
the end it is just people with the same hobby in a room having hotel
food.

AFPAC III was near the top-end of the conference spectrum. It was not at
the level of CPAC or global corporate events, but it was just below.
There was well over one thousand people in attendance. The facility
could hold a few hundred more, but beyond that this event will be moving
into the big-boy size facilities. To give some perspective, if you were
in the back of the room, you needed the giant video screens to follow
the speeches as you could not see the speaker.

That is the other thing you see at the higher end of these things. There
was a stage with the podium, in the middle and two massive video
screens. The room is setup with a first-rate sound system that lets the
people in the back hear the speech, without the people in the front
going deaf. The video screens had the graphics and video shorts you see
at these things to keep people excited between speeches. Again, it was
not at the CPAC level, but they can feel the breath of AFPAC on their
neck.

Therein the lies the second observation about AFPAC that is important.
There is something happening here. CPAC gets all the beautiful people in
their finest to tell one another everything if going to be okay. AFPAC
draws the Dirt People in their finest, who know everything is not going
to be okay. CPAC only lacks the smell of fresh cut flowers to feel like
a well attended funeral for a rich man. AFPAC has the smell of
revolution in the air and the energy that comes with it.

The energy is the third thing worth noting. On a personal note, I have
been to a lot of conferences for all sorts of things. I have never felt
like I was in the middle of an electrical storm until AFPAC. Most of
that is due to the youth of the audience, but even the geezers were
ready to spit on their hands and hoist the black flag. Rock concerts are
not this fired up. If you are showing a bit of gray in the beard and
want to feel good about the future, attend AFPAC IV.

The show itself was much better than you normally get at these things.
The speakers know they are standing in front of a young crowd hungry for
red meat. A Catholic priest opened the show with a prayer, then Nick
gave the crowd a short talk, which was the signal to strap in and enjoy
the ride. Marjorie Taylor Green spoke first. She is a fountain of
political bumper sticker quotes. That is politics today. Then it was a
run of famous live streamers with a few other politicians mixed in.

The speaker list and its arrangement are where you see the growing pains
for AFPAC as it was a bit too much red meat. Pols are always going to be
a fountain of applause lines as that is their business. Live streamers
are not the sort of people used to organizing a speech around a topic or
set of themes. As a result, they fall back on the zingers and
conversational style they do on their show. The effect is something like
a motivational seminar rather than a political conference.

In future events, they would be wise to bound this with two professional
speakers who know how to deliver a speech that people remember the next
day. The big boys will have a speaker open with a speech that gets the
audience thinking, then a series of speakers to pump up the crowd. The
next to last speaker is the closed parenthesis to the first speaker. The
star, in this case Nick Fuentes, comes out to close the show with a
speech that binds the energy with the message.

The same can be said for the security, which was done by lots of young
men volunteering for the job. Like the speeches, they had tons of
energy, but not the structure people come to expect at an event this
size. They got the job done by being wildly overzealous, not terribly
efficient. In the future, a professional team to manage the young men
would be wise. It is not that they did not get the job done. It is that
they missed a chance to impress with it.

The final criticism is that it went too late. The event started with a
cocktail hour where the special guests mingled with about two hundred
attendees. Inevitably, these go on too long, which was the case here.
Then it took too long to get a thousand people seated, so the first
speech started at 8:00 PM. Of course, in a room pulsing with energy, the
speeches went on longer than scheduled. By the time Fuentes closed the
show it was pushing 1:00 AM and the crowd was running low on energy.

Again, this is the bucket of great problems to have if you are the
organizers. It is easy to remedy going forward and offers something new
in the future. They should probably have a VIP dinner on Friday night
for three hundred people. They meet the guests and get a dinner speech
from Nick. The next day is a full day event with breaks to let people
rest up, socialize and all that stuff. It should build up to the evening
portion that gets everyone pumped up to conquer the world.

Of course, that is only possible if the numbers grow and that does not
seem like a problem, given what has happened thus far. AFPAC I was a
small affair held in the third-rate motel in Northern Virginia. Maybe
150 people were in attendance. To go from that to ten times the crowd at
a major facility is special. That is the right word for what is
happening with this youth movement. It is not without some challenges
and it will hit some bumps along the way, but something special is
happening.

That is the question that I had as I packed up for home. I chatted with
many young people and I have some knowledge of the people organizing it.
I have followed Nick’s career since I met him four years ago. Right now,
this is just a thing that is happening, but no one can define. That has
its benefits, but it comes with risk. At some point soon it has to be
more than just a lot of young guys looking for something that welcomes
them as young men in a world hostile to young men.

In the near future, this thing will need a superstructure of ideas to
hold it together once the blows start coming from the establishment. The
blows will not be name calling from the simpleton army of the SPLC. One
day soon, senior Republicans will be told by their handlers to denounce
this movement and its leaders. It has to have the strength to withstand
that sort of assault and answer back. That comes from having a
superstructure of ideas and objectives.

That has always been the problem with populist politics in America. It
has the numbers and the energy, but it always lacks a positive message.
People will sacrifice for only so long in opposition. Eventually, they
cut deals in their mind to accommodate that which they oppose in order
to get on with their life. On the other hand, people will sacrifice
their lives for a dream, a dream for their children. Populism tends to
live in mere opposition, so it tends to fade.

That is the unique opportunity of AFPAC and the movement it represents.
Nick Fuentes comes in for a lot of criticism, but he is smart and
committed. He is not the same man he was when I met him. He possesses a
self-awareness you rarely see in anyone that gets famous in politics. It
is extra-rare in outsider politics. Being the big fish in the small pond
tends to make people feel like gods. They wake up every morning
wondering who has been talking about them since they went to bed.

Fuentes, in contrast, is thinking much bigger than being the big fish in
a small pond and he knows he is a big fish in a small pond. He also
knows he will not be allowed in the big pond, so he is committed to
building a bigger pond. If Pat Buchanan and the paleos had possessed
this degree of self-awareness and realism, we might not be in the
situation where we have to hope the youth will solve the problems left
to them by their parents and grandparents.

A sign that these guys have the right stuff to build a genuine
opposition is something Fuentes did in his speech. He gave a moving
tribute to Jared Taylor that was heartfelt and sincere. Fuentes is loyal
and you could see that in his tribute to Taylor. This is a young man
with a code. He sticks by those who stick by him. That is not always
good in politics, but that is the problem with our politics. No one in
it has code. We are ruled by sociopaths, not men with a code. We need
more men with code.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="1ALo1ra5lv6VFmMZ4cFLpA==cb77Z5Z3+u1OGtlHV6CAgb3mrwLsbW0dcYUsyKVBF2UmJLjZAcHcD1hs1ZCGvTzoS1z"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Kwt3Gf/tMwbfr4vgsA53OQ==cb7Orv8hoyneO86eV7W9qJYQTUcbqG5KTyq77dSgXkeLdJN9/eaPdGZdnXxkyGdE5eF"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
