---
title: "Contemplating The Weirdness"
date: "2022-08-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-08-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28031"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28031"
---

There is little agreement as to the dating of the current crisis, other
than it seems to have started sometime after the end of the Cold War.
Dating transitions from one period to the next is a form of [sorites
paradox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sorites_paradox). America is
culturally, politically and economically different than it was fifty
years ago. The point at which the turn began seems to be around when the
Cold War ended, but the forces behind the transition may have roots
going back a long way.

What can say about this age is that it has been defined by uncertainty.
As Tucker Carlson has noted on several occasions, a lot of things have
happened that no one thought would ever happen. He likes to use the
election of Donald Trump as an example of something so impossible that
it forces you to reconsider your biases about what is and is not
possible. Anyone old enough to remember when Trump became famous in the
1980’s understands Carlson’s point.

Of course, the Trump election was not the first time something happened
in politics that seemed impossible until it happened. In 1990, no
serious person thought Bill Clinton could be president. The reason is no
serious person knew his name. No one had to as the idea of a corrupt
governor from a small state like Arkansas rising to national
predominance for something other than crime was ridiculous. Presidents
needed to be from big states and appeal to normal Americans.

The Clinton-Trump connection is useful for understanding the weirdness
of the current age, because the two of them have a lot of connections.
Bill Clinton and Donald Trump were golf buddies and bonded over their
carnal interests. They both hated Hillary Clinton for the same reasons.
Both had a thing for shady land deals and the shady people who operate
in that space. Their existence is more a symptom of a larger problem
than the cause of anything we see today.

Putting the personal comparisons aside, the transition from the old way
of doing things to this new way is evident in this comparison. Bill and
Hillary Clinton were spectacularly corrupt politicians, but once they
were out of office no one thought it was a good idea to keep pursuing
their criminal activity. That was the old thinking. The new thinking has
the FBI raiding Trump’s home over a petty issue. In that Clinton-Trump
window, much has changed and changed unexpectedly.

That brings us back to the point Carlson likes making and that is we
have to reconsider everything in light of recent events. Every day old
barriers are falling away to new and bizarre forces. Even in the racial
lunacy of the 1970’s, no serious person would have proposed erecting
shrines to a dead drug addict. Today, cities all over the world have
George Floyd memorials. Putting aside the politics, the weirdness of
this suggests some sort of mass psychosis is at work.

Some will be tempted to wave this away as normal. In every age, people
complain about change. It feels like the world has gone mad. Romans
thought the [spread](https://youtu.be/FTilTcdVAb8) of the weird new
Jesus cult was madness. People at the dawn of the industrial revolution
saw their lives completely altered by events. This time of great
uncertainty was what motivated Marx to look for an explanation for the
great upheavals around Europe in the 19th century. Change often feels
like madness.

The thing is prior transitions had an obvious point. The Jesus cult was
different but it was not *that* different. Even the skeptics could
understand the attraction of this strange new religion that was
spreading through the empire. The decline of the feudal order brought
increased prosperity, so even though lots of new things were happening,
lots of good things were happening. The same was true of
industrialization. There seemed to be a logic behind the massive
changes.

The current age is simply weird for the sake of being weird. Why are
Western leaders trying to destroy the agricultural sectors in the West?
They claim Gaia commands it, but what are they getting from this? As far
as religions go, this strange new form of animism does not offer the
believer much of a return. Christianity not only dangles the afterlife
out there, but the promise that the wicked will pay for their sins. Gaia
promises vengeance on all mankind, regardless of their righteousness.

The general weirdness is most obvious in our politics. The reaction to
Trump by the political class was crazy for the sake of being crazy. The
guy was desperate for their acceptance and would have signed whatever
they put in front of him. These are people purpose built to fleece the
sucker, yet when this opportunity arose, they were suddenly too pure to
be spoiled by his presence. Their reaction was the exact opposite of
what a lifetime of behavior would have predicted.

The same can be said for the ongoing pogroms against Trumpism. The 2020
election was the ultimate flex. Logic says they should have immediately
closed the books on Trump and erased him from the collective
consciousness. This is how all ruling elites have handled things. The
ancients would remove all public references to a disgraced person and
forbid mentioning his name. History said both parties would put Trump on
ignore in order to purge him from the culture.

This raid on Trump’s villa is like how Hollywood has an addiction to
subverting expectations with casting. They cast a black actor in the
smart role and a pixie in the tough guy role. Even though this is now
normal, they insist they are subverting the expectations of the
audience. The raid on Trump subverted expectations as even the most
jaded did not think these people were that stupid. In one move they
turned Trump into a martyr and themselves into villains.

Now, the uncertainty and randomness are part of the plan. The belief set
of the ruling elite says that subverting expectations is necessary to
break the habits of mind that keep humanity from transitioning to the
glorious future. A big part of the Gaia cult is the belief that smashing
things will free us from the things that vex Gaia. Smashing up political
custom and tradition by violating the old rules is another effort to
break free from the past in order to ascend into the glorious tomorrow.

This strikes normal people as nuts, but up until a short time ago the
idea of Donald Trump being president sounded nutty too. A year before he
took the oath of office, the phrase “President Joe Biden” was a
punchline. We live in a time when a man with severe dementia is
president. If you can accept that then it should not be hard to accept
that the motivation of the ruling class is a weird set of mystical
beliefs that require them to destroy the foundations of civilization.

Once you wrap your head around the fact that there are no rules, then it
is easy to see that all things are now possible. Dostoyevsky famously
said, “when God is dead, all things are permitted.” Friedrich Nietzsche,
a devoted fan of Dostoyevsky, would notice this and cause a lot of
trouble. Nihilism rejects generally accepted or fundamental aspects of
human existence. The West killed God a long time ago, so it is only
natural that we have reached the point where all things are permitted.

As an aside, you cannot help but laugh at the fact that the people in
charge are obsessed with finding Hitler. They check under their beds
every night and have teams scouring the bushes for any signs of Hitler.
This is their license to overthrow the laws of the natural world. They
attack the very idea that knowledge is possible, because that is white
supremacy. Perhaps Hitler’s revenge was to leave a puzzle so frightening
that it eventually drove his enemies into madness.

The universe does have a sense of humor, so that could be the answer for
the madness, but the universe does not have unlimited patience. Reality
is the thing that does not go away when you stop believing it. The only
thing nature abhors more than a vacuum is the lack of rules. This spasm
of weirdness will eventually slam into this reality and someone will
push aside the current ruling class and reinstitute the rules that must
govern a society. Weirdness is not eternal.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="w2fAGN4iNr+q3da5HOIkbQ==cb7zhZRQyH8As2uAO3LZ4+s7NX8/vVAQaX6FivhzudomypQSGFcEJQUy3s7uKtpUNmJ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="WPniDPkamP6tRAAZeGGRIg==cb7OSt463iTLvYsHFp0PQCKlKDkWupe4y9d/+nNes0LSIkqDz+O8Erl9Q+4sfHG9HwM"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
