---
title: "The Anti-State"
date: "2022-02-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-02-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=26777"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=26777"
---

Since the Greeks, educated men have pondered how it is man came to live
in societies governed by political institutions. By the time societies
reached the point where they could have men sitting around thinking
about this stuff, rather than farming and fighting, the answers had been
lost to time. The state, in one form or another, has been a thing that
exists since the “memory of man runneth not to the contrary.” For just
as long, men have been debating the form of government.

A core assumption, for as long as anyone has known, is that government
has a practical purpose for society. For example, it is the job of every
form of government to defend society from external and internal threats.
The government adjudicates disputes between members of society. It is
the state that deals with the rulers of other societies on the matters
that concern them. Since private government has been the norm, the state
defends the interests of the king or ruling elite.

These are obvious things that everyone accepts, but there has always
been another purpose to the state. The welfare of the people has always
been one of the duties of whoever is in charge. Again, private
government has been the norm, so the king or the aristocracy is supposed
to look out for the people. For most of human history this has meant
economic interests. A good ruler gets powerful because his policies
allow his people to grow rich through trade and commerce.

A new wrinkle was added in the 19th century with the growth of
liberalism. The state was not just about practical things, like war and
trade, but also had a duty to protect and promote freedom and
opportunity. The state needed to be organized around the principle of
liberty and equality. This meant that the law was neutral in that
everyone was equal before the law. It also meant that the people were
free to do as they pleased as long as it did not cause direct harm to
others or the state.

That is a big leap when you stop and think about it. The role of the
state has evolved from the private interest of the rulers and the
economic interests of the people to cultural and spiritual interests. A
government dedicated to preserving the liberty of the citizens is
different than a government dedicated to protecting the interests and
privileges of the rulers. The state is now in the business of securing
the life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness of the people.

Various forms of socialism take this a step further. Instead of the
government getting out of the way of the people and making sure no one
interferes with their pursuit of happiness, the government needs to make
sure no one is being exploited and that everyone can achieve their
potential. This requires the state to take an active role in shaping the
lives of the people. The state is now charged with making sure you are
able to maximize your potential.

This very brief summary of government is useful in thinking about what
is currently happening throughout the West. Until now, government
existed for a positive purpose, to accomplish some goal or promote a set
of ideas. Communism may be irrational, but it had a rational, positive
purpose. Communism promised a world where everyone is equal and free of
exploitation. Liberal democracy was supposed to deliver a world free of
coercion and limits on your liberty.

The West is now reorganizing away from these sorts of positive purposes
to an entirely negative purpose. Antifascism is becoming the organizing
ethos of the ruling elite and that naturally means the government. By
fascism, they mean a collection of ideas and concepts they think are
integral to fascism. Things like racial discrimination or opposition to
men wearing dresses. The point of the state is to eliminate all of these
precursors to fascism from human society.

What we are seeing is the evolution of the first anti-state. Instead of
being organized around a set of aspirations linked to the nature,
culture and history of the people, the state is organized around
exterminating ideas and concepts associated with the nature, culture and
history of Western people. In order to eliminate these things from
humanity, the state must use every tool at its disposal. It also means
leveling existing society in order to rebuild the antifascist state from
scratch.

This is why something like structural racism now takes up so much space
in the discourse of the ruling elite. They look around at the inequality
of man and conclude it must be systemic. Then they look at history and
see that Western societies were created by Western people. They conclude
that society was created to benefit Western people, so they must exist
to the detriment of non-Western people. The solution is to tear down the
system in order to eliminate structural racism.

It is tempting to think that communist societies were similarly
organized around opposition to a concept, but that is not true.
Communism promised something at the end of the struggle against
capitalism. Since there was no practical path to that promised land,
fighting the imaginary enemies of the revolution was a way to deal with
the resulting disconfirmation. Blaming the wreckers for why the promised
bounty of communism had not materialized was a coping mechanism.

The antifascist state, in contrast, is not making any promises about
what comes after the struggle against the basket of “isms” they oppose.
Justin Trudeau is not talking about the glorious future. He is seizing
power in order to wage war against the concepts he and his
coreligionists believe are lurking around every corner. That peaceful
protest by the citizens was seen as Kristallnacht. Screaming “never
again”, the forces of the antifascist state have swung into action.

Since the purpose of the antifascist state is to oppose fascism, it is
vitally important that fascism exists. That is another main task of this
new model. There is a lot of time invested in proving that the threat to
“our democracy” is real. This is not done to convince the public to
support their actions. This is done to maintain their own commitment to
the cause. A main task of antifascism is manufacturing fascists as proof
that it is a real thing that must be opposed.

The result is one side of antifascism justifies any means necessary to
fight fascism, while the other side conjures a never ending supply of
fascists. Unlike the terror that was unleashed by the Jacobins or the
Bolsheviks, the terror of the antifascist state is not a defect of
ideology. The growing terror is a feature of the system. Since fascism
can never be defeated, the war against it is permanent. The price of
antifascism is the permanent terror campaign against incorrect thoughts.

Antifascism is irrational and immoral, but it does solve a serious
problem for the managerial elites in the West. Strip away the political
theory and managerialism is essentially management by committee. This is
horribly inefficient and we see the results all over society. Roads are
crumbling, schools are a mess, public services are increasingly
sclerotic and inept. The system is failing to deliver the basic services
people expect from their political and social systems.

This new civic religion of the ruling elite is providing both a purpose
and a justification for defending itself against the complaints of the
people. All dissent is quickly labeled racist, fascist, white
supremacist, etc. Not only does this justify the abuses were are seeing,
but it also justifies the unresponsiveness of the elites. They no longer
have to dignify the complaints of the people, because those complaints
are white supremacy and therefore illegitimate.

In the end, government is a set of compromises to solve the immediate
problems that come with large-scale human organization. A god-king is
not the ideal form of rule, but it solves the problems that need to be
solved. Popular government brings its own unique problems, but it solves
the problems of inherited rule. Communism failed primarily because it
could not solve the problems it promised to solve. Those compromises
that came with it became intolerable.

The antifascist state is a solution to a problem that does not exist.
Instead, it is a luxury good for a swollen managerial elite disconnected
from reality. Unlike communism, it is not promising a new tomorrow.
Instead, it promises endless struggle. There is a limit to how long any
society can struggle, even against a real enemy. At some point the West
will exhaust itself in the struggle against this imaginary enemy. The
question is how much damage will it do on the way out?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="KJWf1B0TBbVKRadQWNlwVg==cb7n8ec9H1pzPj9IhGjZuHWauRYBtYwtN3mEylG+GgenTnV/pf87Ov+HLyNq++sBmaP"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="a0TnVsTSnYBiNvlvfM8osA==cb73LqPMjulHnnVTW2xzLEvMFjf0sDcvBX1geH5bmTiSjdP2n6fk8ALyZZHBDE6ID9S"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
