---
title: "Wide Right"
date: "2022-02-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-02-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=26540"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=26540"
---

In January, The New Criterion organized a <a
href="https://newcriterion.com/issues/2022/1/the-fallacies-of-the-common-good"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">symposium</a> around the topic of the
changes in the conservative movement. They invited several writers to
respond to the main essay written by Kim R. Holmes, the former Executive
Vice President of The Heritage Foundation and former Assistant Secretary
of State in the G. W. Bush Administration. The respondents are Ryan T.
Anderson, Josh Hammer, Charles R. Kesler, Daniel J. Mahoney, James
Piereson, Robert R. Reilly, and R. R. Reno.

Now, if this were a boxing match, it would have been called in the
second response to Holmes, written by Josh Hammer, a member of Yoram
Hazony’s National Conservatism movement. Hammer offers a lengthy
critique of conservatism but the subtext is a bit of inescapable
reality. The conservative movement, whatever its intensions, was a
complete failure. It conserved nothing. In fact, it may be the biggest
failure in the history of political movements.

Conservatives often respond to this with the claim that it was
conservative foreign policy that defeated communism in the last century.
That is true, but the point of defeating communism was to preserve
American’s way of life and protect the ancient liberties of Western
people. Winning the Cold War was supposed to be a means to an end, not
an end in itself. Instead, the peace dividend has been spent up-armoring
the administrative class and the increasingly tyrannical security
regime.

One reason conservatism is in a crisis is the defenders of the movement
refuse to acknowledge this reality, which calls into question their
sincerity. The Holmes essay does not mention this fact and instead
offers a long critique of the critics. In so doing he inadvertently
reveals the source of the crisis within conservatism and the cause of
its failure. His defense of John Locke displays an ignorance of why
Locke mattered to the Founders and why he matters today.

Locke is considered the father of liberalism because he solved an
important problem. Upon what authority should political philosophy rest
its claims about politics and human society? If it is not the king and
the social order that was passed down to the 17<sup>th</sup> century,
then what should it be? If it is God, then it logically must be
Scripture, but the Gospels are not much help when it comes to creating a
political structure to govern society. Jesus had no opinion on
parliamentary order.

Locke was a Christian who accepted that God created the world. Since God
must be rational, it follows that his creation is rational. Further, it
follows that he knew what he was making when he created the world. He
would have no need to change those rules, as God does not make mistakes,
so it follows that the rules of nature are fixed. Mankind lives in a
world of fixed and discoverable rules, which means we can discover the
rules that should govern human society.

Simply put, Locke removed religion and Scripture from the equation so
that a moral philosophy could rest upon the authority of nature. It is
not an accident that the Founders used the phrase, “Laws of Nature and
of Nature’s God” in the Declaration of Independence. They were not
basing their claims against the King on the words of their favorite
philosopher. They were basing their claims on the same *authority* as
their favorite philosopher.

Unlike the Founders, modern conservatives are not interested in the
“Laws of Nature and of Nature’s God” and instead rest their authority on
their favorite historical figures. They are fond of quoting Locke,
Jefferson, or Lincoln, especially Lincoln, but these are just men. They
can only offer a path to an authority upon which to build a political
philosophy. Otherwise, they are as flawed as every man. Locke, for
example, believed in the blank slate, which is complete nonsense.

This is why conservatism has been a failure. Without some authority to
base their political claims, their opponents are free to dismiss them as
mere tactics. From the perspective of the Left, the Founders were just
men. On the other hand, the historical process is science and the
foundation on which they make their moral claims. Legal and economic
arguments are no use against moral arguments, which is why the Left has
swept conservatism from the field.

To his credit, Holmes is correct to point out that the National
Conservatives are terrified of being associated with identity politics.
The trouble is, there is no way to have nationalism without national
identity, even if you try to hide that identity behind talk of customs
and traditions. Those customs and traditions did not fall from the sky.
They are the product of a people defined by the mating decisions of
their ancestors and the location of those decisions.

Holmes is also correct to point out that the National Conservatives are
wrong about Burke’s influence on the thinking of the Founders. This is
an attempt on their part to replace one favorite philosopher with
another in order to claim the high ground against establishment
conservatives. Further, to pretend that Burke was not well aware of what
it meant to be British, to have a British identity, when he was
defending the traditions and customs of the empire is to exempt oneself
from reality.

The most curious response to Holmes on behalf of the “common good
conservatism” side is from Ryan T. Anderson, president of the Ethics and
Public Policy Center. The group describes itself as “dedicated to
applying the Judeo-Christian moral tradition to critical issues of
public policy”. He correctly points out the fatal flaw in social
contract theory, which is the bedrock of the conservative movement.
There is nothing in nature or in Locke’s writing that requires a social
contract that only guarantees rights.

The proto-society that is coming together could plausibly agree to
sacrifice their rights entirely in order to preserve the commonly held
property of the members. The human sciences tell us that this is
probably the basis of the first human settlements. Kin groups
collaborated with related kin groups to maintain hunting grounds and
water supplies. Similarly, they could have come together to protect some
natural curiosity with which they held a shared spiritual meaning.

The archeological record suggests that what first brought disparate kin
groups together was not an agreement to respect each other’s rights.
Instead, it was common spiritual belief. Göbekli Tepe, in what is now
Turkey, is known as humanity’s first temple. It was constructed by
pastoral people as some a shared religious site. It is assumed that
agriculture caused people to settle down, but this site offers another
plausible reason to settle and cooperate, shared belief in a common set
of gods.

That has always been the trouble with social contract theory. It is a
thing that exists as a logical construct to solve the problem of natural
rights theory. That is, lacking an authority on which to base natural
rights, this imaginary contract between people is conjured from thin air
to be that foundation stone for the theory. Natural rights theory
assumes an axiom for which there is no evidence in history. Further, if
such a contract existed, it probably had nothing to do with rights.

An interesting observation by Robert R. Reilly in his critique of the
integralists is that “They wish to find themselves in a pre-Reformation
Christendom.” Integralism is revanchism, which has run through the
conservative movement since the 1960’s. The integralists may dream of
returning to Camelot, but the current conservatives dream of returning
to 1980. The neoconservatives dream of returning to 1950’s Brooklyn.
Conservatism is the promise of a “do-over” where this time the good guys
win.

Reilly also offers up this strange argument against the common good. “A
love of one’s own can only take one so far. One naturally loves one’s
own, but is one’s own always deserving of love? If this love lacks
grounding beyond a bare attachment to one’s own, how is it different
from others’ preference for their own? Strict nationalism fails to the
extent that it does not take into account natural law and natural
rights, which together condemn the universal state and expose its
inherently tyrannical nature.”

Conservatives used to condemn this sort of universalism to the
woolly-headed intellectuals who spent too much time reading Marx.
Conservatism simply assumed that custom and convention are what allowed
people to live peaceably. Civil society was the product of generations
of trial and error, the result being a collection of compromises we call
culture. There could never be a universal state, as there can never be a
universal culture, because there is no such thing as universal man.

Like all modern conservatives, Reilly is terrified of what naturally
flows from putting the interests of your own ahead of strangers.
Conservatives have accepted the left-wing claim that anything
exclusionary is exploitive and immoral. Loving your child more than the
child of the stranger inevitably leads to fascism, according to the
theology of the modern Left. Whether it is out of fear, cowardice or
stupidity, contemporary conservatives have accepted the morality of the
open society.

As a result, they have no choice but to reject that the common good can
even exist and they busy themselves making the conservative case for the
open society. In fairness, the common good conservatives suffer from
this same affliction. Yoram Hazony’s book, *The Virtue of Nationalism*,
tries to make the case for nationalism, but is repeatedly poleaxed by
the fact that nationalism can only be rooted in biology, history and
location. It also must be exclusive.

This is the problem faced by all of the common good conservatives.
Unless they are prepared to make the case that their program includes
all of humanity, they must define the who and whom of this new
utilitarian conservatism. Who is inside the domain covered by the common
good and who lies outside of that domain? More important, who decides?
Further, upon what authority will this person be selected and what is
the authority upon which they will rely to draw the boundaries?

The common good conservatives are silent on this, even though they
privately will confess that their concept of a nation is the same one
anathematized by the Left. The Finns should decide what is best for the
Finns, even if that means excluding non-Finns from their lands. By
nature of the mating decisions of their ancestors in their ancestral
lands, they have the sole authority over what it means to be Finnish and
what is in the best interests of the Finnish people.

Again, the common good conservatives understand this reality, but they
also know that they will be hurled into the void if they acknowledge the
obvious. To their credit, the neoconservatives have always understood
this and limited their scope to foreign affairs. Their social criticism
was always just window dressing that never dared question the morality
of the open society. Kim Homes, someone who has traveled in
neoconservative circles his whole life, certainly gets this.

Taken as a whole this debate bumps into the question of whether or not
it is possible to have conservatism in a democratic society. As Russell
Kirk pointed out, the first principle of conservatism is the belief that
there exists an enduring moral order. In a political system where the
truth, including moral truth, is decided by 50% plus one, there is no
room for an enduring moral order. The evidence of this is all around us
as men put on sundresses and declare themselves women.

The Founders understood the danger of democracy. This is why they
explicitly said the new constitution provided checks against it. The
democratic elements included in the new political order were bounded by
limits on the state. Modern conservatives reject this and instead think
they can achieve conservative ends by convincing 50% plus one to support
their claims. They excitedly talk about democracy, because they are
operating under the belief they can win over the fickle mobs.

This is because modern conservatism has abandoned that first principle
of conservatism. The libertarians, the neoconservatives and the civic
nationalists find the idea of an enduring moral order as horrifying as
their supposed enemies on the Left. Like the modern Progressive, the
modern conservative has made the shifting will of the people the sole
authority. In such a world there can be no permanence, no tradition and
no appeal to custom. Therefore, there can be no conservatism.

Whether it is the revanchism of the integralists or the sterile
nationalism of Hazony’s brand of conservatism, they fail for the same
reason mainstream conservatism has failed. Without a moral foundation
upon which to make political claims, conservatism is nothing more than a
negotiating position within the democratic system. It is why today’s
Progressive fad turns into tomorrow’s conservative principle. The modern
conservative always starts from the last Progressive victory.

That is the crisis in modern conservatism. For there to be a legitimate
conservative movement, it must first come to terms with what it is it
seeks to defend. Then it must answer why this must be preserved. These
are moral questions that Locke answered by looking at the natural world
as an orderly place that operates by fixed rules. As such, human
happiness lies in the orderly society that operates under a rational and
persistent set of rules.

This naturally means a rejection of the Hegelian theory of history that
is the moral basis of both the Left and the prevailing moral order. The
hand of history is not carrying mankind to some promised land where all
moral questions are answered. A genuine alternative to the prevailing
orthodoxy is not a debate about its factual inaccuracies, but a
rejection of it on moral grounds. That requires a courage that modern
conservatism and common good conservatism are unable to muster.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="fbwxqeNj7zLa1qPGi6XKgQ==cb7KR6jQn4KzW56/JGvZ5fMxCFEwWrklneEU4kSOK67JPKt/iUaz3l+QqewhuvvOk/t"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="iOHLXLWE5bWea9o4lyRItg==cb7iXUDpR7GtGqTeJRNZMYtQFxfGXFhf5FwnjOa6aN5GAcazX1wpPu79d5q6i13wBZb"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
