---
title: "The Virtual Theater Returns"
date: "2022-04-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-04-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27240"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27240"
---

**Note:** I have decided to join the grifter community, please like and
subscribe. In order to do that I am now offering merchandise! I have
teamed up with a bunch of libertarians to start selling some branded
items. I am starting small but will be adding new things to keep the
grift going. Suggestions for pithy slogans are encouraged. The deal is
you buy something, I get a few bucks and they get a few bucks profit. No
one gets rich selling shirts, but every little bit helps. Please shop
[here](https://libertasbella.com/collections/the-z-man).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the great truths of American politics is that for the last few
generations one side has been motivated by dreams of destroying their
enemies, while the other side dreams of befriending the enemy. The
people we call the Left in America are the former case and this is their
primary definition. Their ideology changes, but the one constant is
their desire to clear the field of their enemies. The other side is the
Right, which exists to find some sort of accommodation with their
friends on the Left.

This impulse to seek a compromise is why American politics has followed
a familiar pattern since the Civil War. The Left proposes some novelty
and the Right resists, always trying to reason with them. In the end
they always cave. As Robert Lewis Dabney observed a century ago, “it
(conservatism) demurs to each aggression of the progressive party and
aims to save its credit by a respectable amount of growling, but always
acquiesces at last in the innovation.”

In the main, this is a good way to describe the political dynamic, but
this relationship has had a strange effect on people. The selection
pressure for both camps has molded generations of Americans. On the
Left, of course, the pressure had been in favor of a feminine
histrionics. On the Right, the pressure has been in favor of those who
are sure there is some right answer to every trouble. They just need the
right guy to say the right words so the kingdom of heaven will open.

We are seeing this with the Twitter story. In the early days of the
internet, there was little moderation as no one wanted it. Early
adopters liked that it was a place where they could experience heterodox
opinion. This openness drove technological innovation and helped make
the internet a part of civic life. This is why the Left felt it needed
to take control of it. They saw the internet as another institution that
they must control in their war on normal society.

As the harpies gained control of Twitter, the so-called conservatives
demurred to each new aggression, making angry noises while acquiescing.
They supported free speech but demanded the end of anonymity. They
supported free speech, but not hate speech, whatever that means. Every
“defense” of principle included an important concession to the other
side, in the hope of finding a middle ground. Conservative principles
are always just a retreat from those principles.

Now we have Elon Musk buying Twitter. Musk has claimed to be a free
speech absolutist who is buying the company to open it up again. He has
closed on the company and will take it private. It is unclear as to what
he intends to do with it in terms of censorship, but he clearly wants
his fans to think he will throw open the doors of the platform so it can
be what it was ten years ago. Time will tell if he is willing to do what
is required to make that happen, but that is the dream.

Here we see those conservative attributes that have been carefully
evolved over the last century or so. The first of which is the savior
complex. Conservative people have been sure that what they need is a
great man who not only has the ability to make conservative arguments,
but the courage to do so. The same enthusiasm that put Trump in the
White House is what will flood Twitter with new signups. Elon Musk is
here to save us from the Twitter mobs.

Another attribute, the most destructive, in fact, is the conservative
desire to mix it up with the Left. The reason Twitter exists is
otherwise normal people are compelled to interact with people who hate
them and want them dead. To be a conservative is to lie awake at night
dreaming of left-wing approval. The right argument from the right guy
will cause lefty to throw down his arms and embrace you as a brother.
Twitter exists so conservatives can beg the Left for forgiveness.

This is obviously true, but conservatives cannot accept it. Gab has been
up and running since 2016 and it offers what conservatives claim they
want in a platform. Even better, it is free from the deranged lunatics
that have ruined other platforms. Conservatives dismiss it because they
say it is an echo chamber, by which they mean it lacks the people they
claim to hate. They avoid alternatives to Twitter because they want to
beg lefty for forgiveness and those platforms do not provide it.

The other conservative quality on display with the Twitter story is the
desire to win the approval of the mobs. The same lack of self-worth that
drives the conservative to beg lefty for attention is there in their
love of the mob. Conservatives are sure if they can get a clear shot on
stage, the crowd will reward them with flowers and applause. In a prior
age, they would crawl on their belly to be on left-wing television or
land a speaking gig at a university. Now they just want to be on
Twitter.

Back in the old days, conservatives would argue that they had to be on
far-left television shows in order to reach an audience. Today they
claim they have to be on far-left internet platforms in order to reach
an audience. In Dabney’s time, northern conservatives said they needed
to speak with progressive newspapers in order to reach the broader
audience. In reality, what the conservative wants is the approval of the
Left and there is no limit in how far he will degrade himself to get it.

Twitter is American politics at is most basic. Since Gettysburg,
politics in American has been a theater show. The Left hustles everyone
inside the theater and puts on a show about a victim or a villain.
Sometimes they combine the two. The crowd is told about the plight of
some victim group and is supposed to sympathize. Maybe they are warned
about some villain, which is always the same villain. Old Scratch takes
many forms and the producers of American theater use all of them.

At some point conservatives are brought onto the stage. They shuffle out
in their comfort fit slacks and polo shirts. Their job is to dismiss the
warnings about the villain or tell the victim to “pull yourself up by
your bootstraps.” The crowd is supposed to boo and hiss, but that does
not always happen. Often the villain is so ridiculous that the crowd
just laughs about it. Other times the victim is too creepy and weird for
the crowd to muster anything other than contempt.

Often, the Left brings out their secret weapon, the Hitler costume. The
spotlight focuses on the right of the stage and there it is. Then the
Left asks if anyone in the crowd will play that role. Sure enough, an
idiot runs up, puts on the costume and does the Hitler act. The crowd
then starts throwing cabbages and tomatoes at Richard Spencer as he
prances around on stage. The conservatives freak out, run behind lefty
looking for safety and the curtain falls. The show is over.

This was Twitter from its inception through the 2020 election. The
problem is the producers went bonkers and burned down the theater. In
that meeting with the board of directors, everyone realized they needed
to rebuild the theater. Despite some moaning from the blue checks, the
truth is they want the conservatives back in the theater as much as they
want to perform for them. The privatization of Twitter is going to be
the rebuilding of the virtual stage of political theater.

Time will tell with regards to Musk and Twitter. He will quickly learn
that he must obey the rules of Apple and Google with regards to speech.
Maybe he has had some sort of conversion and he will go to war over it.
Most likely he will compromise in order to get their approval. This will
titivate the conservatives, who will see in his capitulation the stamp
of approval for their capitulation. Twitter will go from a woke site to
a woke site full of conservatives begging the woke for acceptance.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="sxGygO0CKuqJzFU98PmBlA==cb7bfnSNR7Q4eqvnyHt5tcYpVog0kKndm4UQUz+EIZKqGpSVqUSfo9+tDYGNGRsF/7c"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="JqdZYs3Uv5LpreVqPE/LcQ==cb7NxLqWdPC/mDA14wSubBJQU+yX4HO+oJc+ZIvGIP4hLj+IaiEcYFxUH34accpdVjB"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
