---
title: "Elite Dysfunction"
date: "2022-03-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-03-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=26981"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=26981"
---

It is popular in some circles to compare the current crisis to that
which gripped America at the end of the 1960’s cultural revolution. Then
as now, the white middle-class was disenchanted with government. The
nation also faced maddening economic problems like stagflation.
Similarly, the issue of race was center stage, largely driven by the
political Left. We even have a version of the Nixon years in Donald
Trump having been impeached twice for vexing the Washington elite.

This comparison is natural as the dominant demographic in American is
the Baby Boomer generation who came of age in this period. It often
feels like the current political elite is nostalgic for that time and is
trying to recreate it. The cargo cult vibe was most evident in the Trump
years. This comparison is also reassuring as what followed the turmoil
and ugliness of the 1970’s was the reforms of the Reagan years and a
long period of economic stability and prosperity.

It is a comforting narrative, but the comparison is superficial. For
example, in the 1970’s, before Reagan was a realistic option, a
consensus was forming among the various elites of society around
important reforms. Business and banking elites had concluded that the
regulatory code needed drastic reform in order for the economy to adjust
to the changing economic realities. Those FDR era regulations designed
to limit the accumulation of capital had to be rewritten

Reforms to the regulatory regime actually started under Jimmy Carter.
The Airline Deregulation Act was passed in 1978. This begun three years
earlier when Ted Kennedy took credit for launching the initiative. The
monetarist revolution in finance began in the 1970’s and culminated in
the appointment of Paul Volcker as chairman of the Federal Reserve in
1979. He famously began the process of takling inflation by tightening
the money supply.

The point is that long before Reagan was an option, the elites in
America were coalescing around a reform agenda. Business, finance, the
military and the political class were thinking about a reform agenda.
The public was hungry for reform, as they were suffering directly from
the excesses of the cultural revolution and the recklessness of
left-wing economic policy. Of course, the country was demographically
stable with a majority population of close to 90%.

Critics of the comparison to the 1970’s start with that last bit.
America is now a balkanized land of strangers. Thirty years of open
borders has brought tens of millions of alien people into the country.
Thirty years of policies aimed at busting up families and communities
have hit their mark. The United States will be a majority-minority
society within the next twenty years. Recreating the 1980’s consensus
with a population that looks nothing like that of the 1980’s seems
impossible.

That may be true, but the bigger problem is at the other end. The truth
is no one voted for the tax reform agenda in the 1980’s. No one voted
for regulatory reform or even the reforms of the military. These items
were never on the agenda in an explicate way, but rather in the form of
personalities. People vote for people. The pleasant people on the side
of the elite agenda won national elections and the
[boring](https://imgs.search.brave.com/DC-8QqH3FQf_DAGGqQvrMSgGMdK7unjB07m2FwSksnk/rs:fit:832:1200:1/g:ce/aHR0cHM6Ly9ldmVy/aXBlZGlhLXN0b3Jh/Z2UuczMuYW1hem9u/YXdzLmNvbS9Qcm9m/aWxlUGljdHVyZS9l/bi9XYWx0ZXJfTW9u/ZGFsZV9fODU4MGZj/L1ZpY2VfUHJlc2lk/ZW50X01vbmRhbGVf/MTk3Ny5qcGdfXzQ3/ODM1LmpwZWc)
and often
[weird](https://imgs.search.brave.com/BgRsrR-vd9js_GOQQhbNnN9XdBtQCGm_pdJhfvLb9rs/rs:fit:1200:960:1/g:ce/aHR0cHM6Ly9maXZl/dGhpcnR5ZWlnaHQu/Y29tL3dwLWNvbnRl/bnQvdXBsb2Fkcy8y/MDE2LzA4L2JhY2tm/aXJlXzUuanBn)
people opposed to that agenda lost those elections.

Fast forward to the present crisis and it is hard to tease out a reform
agenda from the current ruling elites. Wall Street is operating like
they are planning to swallow the family jewels, pack a suitcase and head
for the border. It is a massive bust out of what is left of the American
economy. Global business is more interested in currying favor with China
and India than in what is happening in America. In both cases, the
viewpoint is post-nationalism and even post-American.

The military industrial complex, which was essential to the reform
efforts of the 70’s and 80’s, is locked in a defensive crouch. Its
singular focus is on maintaining its budget, even at the expense of its
effectiveness. They have embraced the dangerous antiwhite politics of
the academy, just to please the budget makers in Washington. We have
seen men claiming to be generals sobbing about their whiteness, all so
they can please the deranged people on the appropriations committee.

Washington, of course, is a disaster. The old conservative side of the
political class is trapped in the 1980’s. It is nothing but old men
sentimental for their long dead heroes and young men flattering them for
a paycheck. The old progressive side is a museum exhibit that talks. For
them it is either 1968 or 1938. Then you have the new generation of
radicals who are a toxic blend narcissism and ignorance. The few
populist voices in the political class have no agenda to offer.

People like to talk about how “polarized” the public is on the various
issues, but in reality, it is the ruling elite that is shattered. The
only thing holding them together is the growing fear that the tide will
go out and the world will see that they have been swimming naked. The
impulse to surround themselves with razor wire and armed soldiers is the
one thing they have in common. For them, reform is simply how to get
better tools to keep the rabble at bay.

The biggest disparity between the crisis of the 1970’s and the crisis of
today is in the intellectual class. The reformers of the 70’s and 80’s
had a massive library of thought and analysis to draw from while
debating reform. Conservatism was brimming with critiques and proposals.
Monetary reform, for example, was the result of decades of debate on the
topic. Even on the Left there was active debate about what comes after
the cultural revolution of the 1960’s.

Today, intellectual life is barren within the mainstream. On the Left
there is no debate, just a collection of bizarre theories from post-Marx
radicalism. Their answer to inflation is a protest in favor of
crossdressers playing girls’ sports. Conservatism is a dead space now
and the debate over how to reform it is sentimental revanchism. No one
in elite intellectual circles is capable of starting from present
reality and talking about how to change the institutions to adapt to the
new reality.

The reform era we associate with Reagan and the conservative movement
was largely the result of a ruling elite seeking to revitalize itself.
This was obvious if you read elite journals of the time. Reform was a
serious topic debated by serious people. Today we see the opposite. The
elites show no interest in revitalizing themselves and they actively
discourage debates to the contrary. The current crisis looks more like
1970’s Soviet Union than 1970’s America.

Now, this is where dissidents will chime in with two corrections. One is
that the claim that elites are plotting to reform the world. The Build
Back Better stuff was a plan to reorganize society in their image. The
World Economic Forum is an effort to reform the management of the West.
Biden’s animators are now having him mouth the words “new world order”
in speeches. In other words, the elite are trying to reform the world,
just not in a way that serves the public interest.

The other claim is that these debates are no longer happening in elite
publications or in elite forums. Instead, they are happening at private
confabs like Davos or maybe at the Bohemian Club’s annual retreat. The
global over-class now conducts its business far away from public view.
Further, it aims are not expressed in legislation but in global
regulation through international organizations. Non-governmental
organization now do the hard work that used to be done by national
legislatures.

The problem with the first critique is that what is being sold as a new
world order shows no signs of being a reform movement. Instead, it looks
like a lagging indicator of civilizational collapse. Like the American
elite, the Western elite is held together by the fear the system will
not hold. Guys like Klaus Schwab, the comical head of the World Economic
Forum, are just monorail salesman exploiting the angst of the Western
managerial elites. He is running a long con.

As to the second critique, there is no evidence that the people driving
elite policy are operating from anything by avarice. You do not see deep
thinkers invited to their soirées at Davos or other elite confabs. Maybe
there are secret gatherings of the elites where their big-brained
advisors layout their plans for global domination. Without any evidence
to support this claim, there is no reason to think it is true. Instead,
the chaos we are seeing probably reflects the chaos of the elites.

Now, it is possible that there is an elite consensus forming up, but it
needs a bit more pain to whip it into existence. The coming economic
disorder, which will show up in the streets and the voting booth, may be
the remedy to elite dysfunction. On the other hand, we may have reached
a point where elite consensus is no more likely than a popular consensus
in a majority-minority society. Elite dysfunction may be a sign of a
looming crackup of the old order.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ybFmhqyv2Le0Oqy+455Tlg==cb7nCaeDiTB19zmF7OGXNE1j8W6Qlptv3DtVQHBdJP5o9bLxuHksHLx9gKuzqeYb0Mu"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="QmWm0fFFPXYjOP5OqUHYDg==cb7+9jlCJ8BBJbdKQiS3NKrXx0rNF/joMYkpK7rUZS2alU7TUCSKTRJxiD9R/EYXnaS"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
