---
title: "Chaotic Evil"
date: "2022-08-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-08-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28068"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28068"
---

A generation ago, most Americans associated political prisoners and the
secret police with communism and third world dictatorships. A dictator
ignored the needs of his people and threw political opponents into
dungeons, while lining his pockets and those of his cronies. The
communist societies used the secret police to spy on and intimidate the
people. The free world had its faults, but it lacked this sort of
compulsion, because it was a rules-based system of politics.

Those not around a generation ago are left to imagine what such a world
was like, because present day America is nothing like a generation ago.
The last three decades have seen a steady slide into the features we
used to associate with police states and third world dictatorships. The
regime is too busy stuffing its pockets to attend to the people’s
business. They use the secret police to harass critics and a deeply
corrupt legal system to jail dissidents.

The question that is seldom asked is how did this come to pass? America
more or less operated by a respected set of rules into the 20th century.
There were periods of lawlessness like the civil war and the Wilson
administration. The courts got out of control in the middle of the last
century, but they were seeking to expand rights rather than constrict
them. The reformers of the 1960’s may have been misguided, but they were
still operating within the liberal order.

One argument for what went wrong starts with the Clintons. One side of
the political class, desperate for a presidential win, decided to throw
in with a pair of narcissistic sociopaths from the Ozarks. This deal
with the devil required abandoning one old rule after another until the
very idea of rules was in question. The Left’s relationship with the
Clintons was a series of moral compromises. Since the Left is the
arbiter of political morality, their decent was our decent.

It is not possible to overstate the malevolence of the Clintons. They
are the two most corrupt people in the history of American politics.
Their first caper in the White House was to steal raw FBI files on their
opponents. The mere suggestion of this is what got Nixon run out of town
a generation earlier. That caper was the high water mark, in terms of
ethics, for the Clinton era. By the time he left the White House,
politics reflected the vulgar degeneracy of the Clintons.

The thing is though, the old code of conduct in Washington never would
have tolerated the Clintons. We know this because four years before Bill
Clinton climbed out of the sewer, Gary Hart was taken out of contention
for womanizing. Hart was never accused of murder or corruption. He liked
the ladies. In 1988, his lack of discretion was disqualifying, but in
1992, Bill Clinton’s womanizing was overlooked. Something happened in
the intervening years to change attitudes.

The big event was the end of the Cold War. The reason for which the
American empire had been organized, the Soviet Union, was no more. It
has long been forgotten, but the new generation of baby boomer
politicians was ready to party. They were going to spend the “peace
dividend” on their favorite projects. Bill Clinton’s campaign was an
explicit rebuke of the prior generation. George Bush was old and out of
touch, while Bill Clinton was cool and modern.

What made the Clinton crime wave possible was the end of the Cold War
which took with it the moral imperative to maintain the liberal code.
The managerial elite that emerged in the 20th century abided by the
liberal code because it was necessary to fight Soviet communism. That
set of rules governing both politics and the political culture were
necessary to organize society for the long fight. The threat of nuclear
annihilation was the exclamation point on the project.

The fall of the Soviet Union removed this great threat and with it the
reason to maintain the old moral code. Rolling the dice with a couple of
psychopaths suddenly did not seem like much of a risk. Making exceptions
to the old rules no longer felt like a gamble, as America was the last
superpower. The end of history and the thousand year Reich were upon us
all at once and Washington sat atop it all. Everything was possible, so
everything was now permitted.

Where we are today, with the emerging thugocracy is a result of a
managerial elite that no longer sees any limits. Like the generation
raised up after the Second World War, the new generation of leaders that
came to power after the Cold War brought with them a narcissistic sense
of entitlement. The reason they think sending the FBI to harass
opponents is a good idea is because all of their ideas are good ideas.
Every criticism is met with a collective “do you know who I am?”

What we are witnessing is the winners version of what happened in Russia
after the collapse of the Soviet Union. As the losers in the great
ideological struggle of the 20th century, Russia was prostrate to the
world for more than a decade. The only law governing behavior was the
law of the jungle. First it was chaos, then it was rule by the various
oligarchs and then finally the restoration of civil authority. Thirty
years on the new Russia has finally emerged from its past.

America, on the other hand, was the winner. More important, the new
generation of leaders that took over inherited the sense of historic
accomplishment that came from the victory in the Cold War. Like the
degenerate children of a family dynasty, this generation needed
structure to prosper. They were made for it. Instead, they came to power
just when the old structure was falling away. What they have created in
its place is a lawlessness that reflects their character.

Alexander Dugin observed that the end of the Cold War was a disaster for
Russia because it suddenly removed the old rules. Communism was
horrible, but it was better than the chaos that followed. It turns out
that the same is true for America. The end of the Cold War was a
disaster. The old rules were not perfect, but they were better than the
evolving lawlessness that followed. Unlike the Russians, Americans are
learning this slowly, rather than all at once.

Like the Soviet system that emerged after the war, the American empire
that formed up after the war was unnatural. America was never fit for a
centralized unitary state that was necessary for the long war. It is too
big, too diverse and too fractious to be ruled by a central government.
In war time, this temporary arrangement was accepted as a necessity of
war. Once the war ended, the rationale for the current arrangements
ended with it and what is left is this unnatural system of rule.

For that last thirty years the spoiled children of excess who sit atop
the managerial class have been searching for a reason to exist. First it
was the crusades against Islam, then it was reviving the Cold War with
Russia. Now a war with China over Taiwan is the hoped for reason to
exist. If Russia and China fail to provide the external justification,
then a war against the people will be the answer. They will defend
democracy from the people who seek to participate in it.

The autocratic behavior of the managerial elite over the last decade is
a response to the evolving awareness of what is happening. The populism
that propelled Trump to the White House is an instinctive response to
the growing lawlessness. Trump was a chaos candidate only because he
represented the old order. The response from the managerial elite was to
smash the remaining bits of the old order. Trump’s continuing presence
is what fuels their growing authoritarianism.

There is no returning to the old order, but the current lack of order
will not survive the people who created it. As the collection of geezers
who defined the post-Cold War era die off, their replacements will prove
to be as hapless as they look. The great chaos that followed the
collapse of communism will come to the West when the post-liberal
American order collapses. What comes next will be different, but much
more in tune with the nature of the society over which it rules.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="hw/cUQ23+aMA9R0X5l7hqg==cb7D/pMTERLUBMj4ptUjAo5v2T/lgZF22OXSVjOypa9XVoqx56pxkdU2B6rRKVNfQ7x"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="KwLU1P0g7heqohK70Q464g==cb7aYkjOSFVgJBI7+EhA53qXMlgEAf5PXGQXdxg7DVHRlzDbVWozoqA6GRlFaigQiwV"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
