---
title: "Good Evening Vietnam"
date: "2022-05-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-05-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27373"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27373"
---

With the overwhelming support of both parties, Congress just passed
another military aid package to Ukraine. This one is for forty billion
in weapons, but like most things that come from Congress, it has other
items. There is money to resettle Afghans into your neighborhood and
money for friends of the empire. This package is on top of similar
packages passed this year and the passage of lend-lease, which will let
the neocons managing Biden flood Ukraine with weapons.

Unlike prior aid bills, only the dullest, most insulated members of
Congress were out in front of the cameras taking credit for it. That
means it was the leadership of both parties and select lifers with no
connection to their home state. Most were nowhere to be found, as they
suspect their vote was not a great career move. A few Republicans
opposed the bill and made sure to let everyone know it. This latest
package has the feel of last call at a party that should have ended long
ago.

The aid package, of course, will have no impact on the war. The
situation has settled into a decidedly one-sided affair. The Russians
pound the Ukrainians with missiles, artillery and rocket fire. The
Ukrainians lack the ability to do much about it other than hunker down
in their fortifications and hope for the best. Artillery shells are
cheap, so the Russians are happy to rain steel on Ukrainian positions,
slowly grinding them down until one day soon the army collapses.

This was not what the State Department promised. By now, the Russian
economy was supposed to be collapsed, the army in chaotic retreat and
Putin awaiting execution by the revolutionary mobs. That was what the
planners promised the Biden administration, who made the same promise to
NATO and the EU. The plan was to make sure the Ukrainians could hold out
for a few months. The magic of the economic shock and awe campaign would
do the heavy work against Russia.

Not only have none of the promises materialized, but it is also becoming
clear that the war against Russia was poorly conceived and executed. It
has had little impact on the Russians, but the West is taking it on the
chin. Energy costs in parts of Europe are 30% higher than the start of
the war. Food prices are rocketing upward with the promise of more to
come later this year. Then there is the ten million or so Ukrainian
refugees that are camped out in various parts of Europe.

Reason should lead Washington and its various puppet governments in
Europe to reconsider the war in Ukraine. No one cares about Ukraine, but
the point of this war was to harm Russia, maybe even bring about regime
change. The payoff would then be easy access to Russian natural
resources. The West would get cheap energy from Russia as its war booty.
With that off the table, logic says it is time to rethink the strategy
and maybe cut a deal with Russia.

On top of the geopolitical blinders, the plan also seems to have been
remarkably tone deaf with regards to domestic audiences. The massive
public relations campaign at the start of the war worked on the dullards
who also always fall for these things, but a large minority remained
skeptical. Having been conned by the Covid swindle, many people are
simply unwilling to accept anything from the media now. A good forty
percent of the public in the West is now permanently skeptical.

The economic cost of this war is bringing the politics of the war back
to the usual ground that favors the skeptics. In the United States there
is a long list of things that are not working and could use government
attention. The southern border is the most obvious example, but the
leaders of both parties call you a bigot and demand the FBI investigate
you if you mention it. Ukraine is looking like another boondoggle to
avoid addressing domestic concerns.

A similar problem is turning up in Europe. The deranged dingbat
installed as head of the EU, Ursula von der Leyen, has been trying to
engineer a boycott of Russian energy products, but that plan has
collapsed. The stated reason was that the member nations needed time to
find new energy sources. The real reason is the mood in Europe is
darkening as reality settles in with the puppet governments. They have
little power, but they are still subject to popular revolt.

The question that is starting to circulate around Western capitals is if
there is an off-ramp for this growing disaster. Ideally, the EU would be
tasked with engaging the Russians in high level talks to put an end to
the war. Everyone knows what the Russians want as they have made their
position clear. Zelensky will have to accept the deal the EU makes, as
he is just an actor hired to play a role. He and his co-stars have
already been granted British passports.

The problem is Washington and many EU leaders have branded Putin a war
criminal and declared there can never be a deal with Russia. The problem
is obvious. If you declare someone evil and then turn around a make a
deal with that person, you are now in league with evil. Washington has
been demanding regime change in Russia, calling on locals to assassinate
him if necessary. It is safe to assume the Russians are not going to be
overly generous in negotiations.

There is also the greater problem of the situation on the ground. Putin
is the moderate in the Russian political elite. The military wanted to
vaporize the Ukrainian strongholds with airpower, but Putin insisted on
the slow approach. Now that success on the ground is guaranteed, those
hardliners are not going to go along with a deal that does not get the
Russians more than they wanted before the war. They will demand the
south and east of Ukraine as reward for their support.

What is shaping up for the West, particularly America, is a modern
version of the Vietnam conflict in the 1970’s. The political class is
locked into a strategy that cannot work, but they cannot reverse course.
They believe their only option is to keep doing the same thing, despite
the results. At the same time, the public is becoming quickly skeptical
of the enterprise, but unable to find a political outlet for it. This
makes for a very unstable political situation.

The big difference between Ukraine and Vietnam is that America has not
committed troops to the war. On the other hand, this is the age of
privatization of government policy, which means there are private
military contractors operating in Ukraine, being paid for by the
Pentagon. It will not be long before the extent of this becomes clear as
foreign fighters are captured on the battlefield. Vietnam started with
loads of advisors initially and then led to troops on the ground.

The other difference is that in the 1970’s there were realist in the
political class who understood the problem. Nixon was able to craft a
way out of Vietnam, even though it cost him his presidency. The
political class in the 1970’s was also more in touch with the general
public than it is today. Most of Washington is so deranged now they
think it is good politics to mock the baby formula shortage as Putin
propaganda. No one in 1970’s Washington was this demented or obtuse.

In the 1970’s, Vietnam was a cancer on the American empire. It was not
the only cancer, but it was a serious one. The ruling class recognized
it and removed that cancer from the body politic. A series of difficult
reforms were implemented that removed the disease from the system. This
was possible because the country was still dominated by a sensible
middle-class and the political class had plenty of reasonable men who
actually cared about the country.

This new cancer on the body politic promises to be much more aggressive,
because the body is much weaker. The public is atomized, cynical and
exhausted by years of revolution from the top. Of course, the
demographics are much different. The millions of paperwork Americans
created over the last thirty years lack the human capital to survive the
required surgery. The political class is now devoid of anyone who cares
enough about the country to champion the necessary reforms.

In another example that shows the universe has a sense of humor, baby
boomer politics were forged in the antiwar protests of the 1960’s. The
end phase of baby boomer politics will now be determined by the pro-war
policies of the boomers. The people who cut their teeth shouting “baby
killer” at men in uniform are now baby killers demanding that young men
put on a uniform and fight a pointless war of choice. The baby boomer
generation of politicians have become the thing they hated.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="/2Iesp4rke9DBU4hWKtvNA==cb7vE2emV7JMPrINJSJAndY8/nRNVtOGzSWaraJjS8NTRTEL5MLJB1VZXWP1+/3Ki9T"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="/yVWMuVoIib3p3kpcuXocg==cb7f3Yh/bKmFubyNRScHathTwtxUDrsB7e905gDKl8rjgozTUTvBs3XtplkUnDTaKKB"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
