---
title: "The Great Stupidification"
date: "2022-11-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-11-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28680"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28680"
---

If you were alive in 1985 it would have been perfectly normal for you to
argue with your liberal friends about the issues of the day. This was
the time of the Great Interregnum, when it was possible to have open
debate about most topics. People like Peter Brimelow and Jared Taylor
were allowed on television to speak their minds about topics that are
now totally forbidden. There were some limits, but for the most part
everyone accepted that everything can and should be discussed.

It is hard to imagine such a condition, given the world of harsh
censorship that we experience today. Not to put too fine of a point on
it, but daytime talk shows would regularly have people on who claimed to
be fascists. The host would make sure to let the audience know they were
bad guys, but they got to say their piece. Holocaust deniers and black
nationalist also were part of these shows. It was entertainment, for
sure, but these people still got on the big stage.

Then as now the people we call the Left in America controlled the
institutions, but forty years ago there more confident. The typical
liberal person was fine debating a typical conservative, because they
thought they were right. Both sides figured a good dose of facts and
reason would bring the other side around. The people putting Black
Hebrew Israelites on daytime television were sure that once people got a
look at these people, they would laugh and then forget about them.

The thing that has been lost in all of the censorship and cancellation
campaigns is the panic that motivates these things. The people trying to
purge the public square of normal debate are doing so out of fear. That
fear comes from a lack of confidence and that is driven by a sharp
decline in intellect. The Great Fear we are experiencing is mostly due
to a growing intellectual darkness that is consuming the liberal class
that controls the institutions of cultural production.

You can get a sense of it from the Twitter drama. Musk bought a company
that had 7,500 fulltime employees and 5,500 contractors. He summarily
fired half of the staff and ninety percent of the contractors. Twitter
has not gone dark or failed to work properly since the mass layoffs. It
appears there were sabotage efforts, but those have either failed or
were found out before they could be executed. In other words, half of
the people working at the firm contributed nothing.

Slowly we are getting some insider accounts of what life was like for
the people inside this company and it offers an insight into the rest of
the hive. Most of the “workers” did no actual work, even people employed
as programmers. Instead, they spent their days playing make believe,
creating things like workers co-ops and support groups for increasingly
exotic identities. Twitter had become an adult daycare center that
catered to the needs of the increasingly unfit.

If this was going on at Twitter, a company that had to try and make a
profit, imagine what happens in places with no need to turn a profit? It
explains why CNN turned into 24-hours freak show. They were collecting
over a billion a year in revenue through the tax farming system that is
your television service. Corporate activism threw billions more onto
their coffers for political reasons. When ratings ceased to be a
concern, it is no wonder Don Lemon was their featured star.

The most extreme example, the engine of wokeness in the modern age, is
the American academy, which is totally disconnected from reality.
Hundreds of billions pour into the system regardless of the product.
Small private colleges tend to be more practical because they have to
make ends meet, but even there they have found a way to get on the free
money gravy train. Oberlin College is a finishing school for the
mentally unstable females of bourgeois America.

The American university is awash in cash, so the administrators are free
to indulge the whims of the infantilized faculty. In fact, all of the
selection pressure is in favor of the sorts of people who fall for these
ridiculous academic fads. Absurdity and stupidity have become moral
signifiers on campus. Empiricism and probity are now seen as the sins of
the white power structure. Acting white is now the greatest sin, so the
inhabitants seek to produce the most antiwhite fads possible.

The great stupidification of America is obvious in the language. The
great and good now salt their language with abracadabra words like
disinformation. The fact that they regularly confuse disinformation with
misinformation is the tell. The hair-hat on CNN wailing about
disinformation on-line has no idea what the word means nor does he even
care, because for him it just means forbidden. Like a chimp flinging his
poo at an enemy, he flings the word disinformation at the audience.

Conspiracy theory is another popular abracadabra word. The World
Economic Forum posted on Twitter a [video](https://archive.ph/p719J)
they labeled The New World Order. This is a phrase they have been using
for decades. Twitter then puts a warning on the tweet that reads, “The
New World Order is a conspiracy theory which hypothesizes a secretly
emerging totalitarian world government.” Clearly, the term “conspiracy
theory” now simply means anything the hive mind has banned from the
hive.

The hive now has lots of these words and phrases. They seem to think
they just need to position one of these magic words next to the thing
they fear and it will magically disappear from their presence.
Alternatively, if they label someone with one of their magic words
enough times, that person will disappear. The dullards at the ADL now
believe if they chant “antisemitism” enough times everyone they hate,
which is 70% of the population, will simply vanish.

This is not the behavior of intelligent and confident people. This is
the mindset of a primitive man, terrified of the world around him, so he
embraces various rituals and incantations to provide him protection from
the unknown. Instead of chanting a magic phrase to invoke the gods, the
modern progressive chants “racism” and “fascism” to chase away the evil
spirits they are sure lurk in the shadows. This is why public debate has
suddenly become impossible.

It has been said that the Eskimos have many words for snow. The reason
is snow plays a huge role in their life, so they need a nuanced
understanding of it. Similarly, the modern progressive has many words
for outsider. The reason is they are obsessed with the imaginary wall
between themselves and the outside world. The reason all of these magic
words mean outsider is the obsession is the wall. The modern progressive
is defined by that wall, so it is his obsession.

What appears to have happened within the managerial class is that the
smart fraction is slowly being overwhelmed by the deranged faction.
Twitter is a good example of how an insulated institution succumbs to
bourgeois excess. This is surely happening all over government, just as
it is happening in the academy. Work still gets done, but the capable
are now dragging a massive sack filled with gender theorists and
critical race theory workshop participants. The burden is becoming
unbearable.

Twitter may be a foreshadowing of what comes next. Now that the election
system has been fortified for democracy, the ruling class can begin to
relax. The threat is receding so they can begin to shed the defense
system of howling lunatics they accumulated over the last decades. Like
Twitter hacking off its useless parts, we may see something similar
across the ruling class. These useless primitives are no longer worth
the cost of carrying them, so they will be cut loose.

On the other hand, Twitter could be a rearguard action.
<a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/51233/51233-h/51233-h.htm"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The Marching Morons</a> solution is no
longer possible, because the smart fraction within the managerial elite
has already been overcome by the crazies and stupid. The people who had
to be protected from criticism because they were too weak cannot be
challenged now, because they are too strong, so they will now define the
managerial elite. The system will collapse under the weight of its own
stupidification.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ASYy4lEp+fEAQZ2hc/uK4g==cb7sSbApkOxB9EQ7Oax2CQ9o4ntmfRIny2h4os8W3sI1E2BY7FZAJJV847+AMtEpujC"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="q5frdItgd9v3vOymnYEt5A==cb7hgwC25YwGphqq36w8SuAoz2d/0Yk/Rs0x+boKCCgWA3wuUWdSXapx6XahJfNzZMi"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
