---
title: "Affirmative Musings"
date: "2022-11-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-11-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=28602"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28602"
---

The upcoming midterm elections are sucking most of the oxygen out of the
newsroom and what is left is consumed by the usual drama, but the big
story looming on the horizon is the Supreme Court race cases. The court
has been hearing <a
href="https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/us/affirmative-action-supreme-court-signals-skepticism-of-race-conscious-college-admissions/ar-AA13zfEh"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">oral arguments</a> on two related cases.
One involves Harvard’s anti-Asian admission policy and the other
involves North Carolina’s antiwhite admission policies. Both schools are
fighting to maintain their race based admissions system.

The makeup of the court and prior statements by current justices on the
matter strongly suggest these polices are in trouble. In fact, it has
been clear that the court has been skeptical of affirmative action for a
long time, but the thinking was that legislatures would eventually solve
the problem on their own. There is no way to square these policies with
equality before the law, if the law says you cannot discriminate based
on race, even in private matters.

People who follow the court have thought for a long time that the
Supreme Court has been waiting for the right case to junk the whole
regime. Now it has two cases and oral arguments suggest the court is
looking to do something dramatic. Even the regime toadies on the bench
expressed skepticism. The lawyers defending these policies are
struggling to justify them. In this corrupt age, one can never be sure
of anything, but it does look like affirmative action is doomed.

Most people assume that the court in this area has been struggling to
balance equality before the law with the moral claims about race. These
policies were based in good intensions to right past wrongs, but they
slammed into the basic principle of equality before the law. Punishing
someone alive today for things someone long dead may or may not have
done is patently immoral. It is a blood libel. It is the central
contradiction of what the progressives call restorative justice.

There is some truth to this but the real issue the court will eventually
face with regards to this issue is the private versus the public. Where
is the line between what a citizen can do as a private citizen and the
duties of every citizen. In other words, where does private action end
and public duty begin? Put another way, where does one’s public duty
give way to private preference? This is an age old question that every
human society must solve in some way.

In the case of racial discrimination, no one thinks you should be
required to date outside of your race or have friends from other races.
On the other hand, it is considered immoral for a restaurant to deny
service on the basis of race. If you put up a sign that reads, “No
Asians”, you will go to jail. Why is the first example entirely
acceptable but the last is not acceptable? Why must you invite people
you do not like into your business, but you can bar them from your home?

The answer, in part, has always been that the business is a public
accommodation, but that was simply a way to avoid the issue. This bit of
civic theology is not applied to most other areas of business. The tech
companies and banks actively discriminate against white people and
promote antiwhite bigots. The two universities defending their race
based admissions proudly discriminate against whites and Asians in the
most public of public accommodations in America.

Clearly, the public accommodation principal is a farce. This is why the
court decision next spring to junk affirmative action is just the
beginning. The court will probably say that the state cannot
discriminate based on race. Harvard is a private college, but they get
government grants and their students get government loans, so current
law makes them a government entity. At least it makes them subject to
the same limitations that the law places on government institutions.

Harvard could simply stop taking government money. Religious schools
have taken <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2016/07/the-controversial-reason-some-religious-colleges-forgo-federal-funding/490253/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this road</a> to avoid anti-Christian
discrimination. Hillsdale College famously foregoes government money.
Harvard could do the same and then fight this fight in the courts all
over again, but this time as a private entity. The question at that
point would be the question at the core of all of this. Where is the
line between private rights and public duties with regards to these
moral questions?

If the court were to say that a private college is free to select
students by whatever criteria they choose, then they would have
overturned the entirety of antidiscrimination laws, including things
like hate speech and hate crimes. On the other hand, if they extended
the prohibition against discrimination to the private sphere, then that
would mean no one can express their preferences in private. Your dinner
party would be subject to claims of discrimination.

This gets back to the public accommodation issue. Is a private college
really a public accommodation when it is designed for a narrow purpose
like religion? How about private clubs, which have been banned due to
discrimination? Would a male-only club be allowed if it is private? At
some point, a clear line has to be drawn between what is private and
what is public. The real issue in these race cases is where does that
line exist and how best to codify it in the law.

This raises a much larger issue, in that liberal democracy relies on
morality as the spring to motivate the citizens. Aristocratic systems
rely upon the desire to attain greater rank and privilege, bestowed from
above. Authoritarian systems rely on fear of the people in charge of the
state. A republic relies on the willingness to put the interests of the
institutions ahead of private interests. Liberal democracy relies on the
submission to a common morality.

If there is a line between the private and the public, it rules out a
commonly held moral code to which all must submit. After all, simply
going along with the latest thing to avoid trouble is different from
embracing the new morality. We see this all the time with the various
social fads. Being indifferent to antisemitism, for example, is
unacceptable because it suggests you may not be enthusiastically opposed
to it. You have to show your opposition in a public way.

If all of a sudden, we have a clear line between the public and private,
it means you can oppose public morality in private, but play along when
out in public. This makes public morality a polite fiction. The fact is
morality only works if people either believe it or fear falling outside
of it. One does not do the right thing when no one is looking if one
does not think it is the right thing or fear it may be the right thing.
Simply put, acknowledging the private sphere undermines democracy.

That, of course, leads to another problem. If all of a sudden, colleges
have to use objective criteria to select students, everyone knows what
will happen. What happens when fire departments and police departments
are forced to follow suit? Even if they fashion a way around it, the
implication is clear. It means that all men may be equal in the eyes of
God, but they are not equal. Some are smarter, stronger, bigger, faster
and this tends to track with sex and race.

The entirety of the affirmative action regime rests on the assertion
that people are amorphous blobs that can be shaped into anything.
Overturning affirmative action exposes this nonsense to public view. All
of a sudden, the quest for diversity is nothing more than a private
preference masquerading as a public good. It has no basis in reality and
often contradicts reality. Another piece of the liberal democratic moral
superstructure is yanked away.

No one should be deceived into thinking the court will swing a wrecking
ball through the liberal democratic order. Even if they overturn the
concept of affirmative action, which seems likely based on the current
court, all they will have done is tip over the first domino in the
process. Even so, it does suggest we may be nearing an end point to the
last surviving ideology of the 20th century. Like the others, its
internal contradictions will eventually succumb to the realty of the
human condition.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="wkVPIJBiNM9a+NYTi1TZgw==cb7fRzEwUv/Spqd9O7BPI5ivW8KT8UKW0FBsb3IJ0zAHDhRJmL4+cn1KpyFYa5b8vsv"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Gu7mp2YiAfyumhC1o65zDg==cb70lVjAMtJEBP1UMxCe/FvVXvi8AEASUL6btUaLHHvlb16/rkkrNqUzFVDyxxlE24Z"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
