---
title: "The Administrative Crisis"
date: "2022-01-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-01-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=26226"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=26226"
---

A feature of modern society is the vast administrative state that
manages every aspect of modern life. Modern people take it for granted,
as they have never known any other way to live, other than being guided
by massive bureaucracies. No one alive today remembers a time when there
was not a bureaucrat behind every bush ready to shout instructions or
warnings. A big part of what the paleocons call “managerialism” is the
vast system of administration that runs society.

It is tempting to say that the Romans had a big administrative state.
Diocletian expanded the empire’s civil and military administration. He
established administrative centers around the empire, especially near
the borders, in order to extend control from Rome to all areas of the
empire. He is often referred to as the father of bureaucracy and what we
think of as civil administration. People may also point to Byzantium,
which expanded this concept into a complex form of rule.

There are two big differences between these older forms of government
bureaucracy and what we live under today. One is the old system was not
built around an ideology like we see now. Our administrative state is
built around the idea that society can be managed scientifically by an
army of experts. The other difference is the modern administrative state
is about training the citizen to achieve his fullest potential within
the liberal democratic order, to be a good liberal democrat.

Interestingly, the administrative state in modern liberal democracies
looks and acts much like the bureaucracy that evolved with the Soviet
system. Both were driven by ideology and both were designed to
micromanage the life of the people. The fascist systems that sprung up
in the interwar years showed the signs of developing an administrative
state as well. Like communism and liberal democracy, fascism embraced
the rational management of society.

The other not so obvious similarity between liberal democracy and
communism is their respective administrative states evolved as a
response to democracy. Running a country where everyone has a say can
only be done if the overwhelming majority are saying the same thing.
Therefore, a primary duty of the state is to train people to hold the
same beliefs, to share the same common sense. The administrative state
is as much about promoting ideology as administration.

Something else that is unique to the modern age is the scale and reach
of the state in terms of its ability to control activity. Those old
forms of imperial bureaucracy were mostly built around protecting the
interests if private rulers. Vast swaths of life were left to the people
to sort for themselves. In modern systems, the state protects the
interest of everyone, so the activity of everyone is heavily regulated.
19th century prisons offered more freedom than the modern Western
democracy.

When he was inaugurated, Ronald Reagan said, “In this present crisis,
government is not the solution to our problem; government is the
problem. From time to time, we’ve been tempted to believe that society
has become too complex to be managed by self-rule, that government by an
elite group is superior to government for, by, and of the people.” Those
words were rooted in Reagan’s reading of people we now call
paleo-conservatives, who were early critics of managerialism.

Fast forward to now and what is called conservatism is a celebration of
the administrative state. In the Bush years, they were pushing what they
called “big government conservatism” which was an explicit endorsement
of scientific management of society. Their claim was that they could
harness the power of the administrative state to achieve what they
claimed were conservative ends. Green eyeshade conservatism had given
way to administrative conservatism.

Covid has revealed that the overwhelming majority of people in modern
Western democracies just accept that their fate is in the hands of the
state. The proper response to Covid was to redirect resources to
hospitals to treat sick people, but otherwise let nature take its
course. In the administrative state, no aspect of life is left
unmanaged, so an army of experts was unleashed to put nature back in her
bottle. The crisis of Covid is that nature won and the administrative
state failed.

The crisis of the administrative state began to form up on the horizon
at the end of last year as the economy began to do weird things. Prices
for consumer goods started to spike and the supply chain began to break
down. It was assumed that modern monetary management had made inflation
a relic of the past. An army of experts trained in our best universities
managed the supply chain, so goods and services could be efficiently
managed in response to economic conditions.

Even more bizarrely, the labor markets no longer make any sense,
according to the rules of the economic elites. Millions of people have
left the workforce despite millions of unfilled jobs. Wages have started
to creep up, but that has not had any impact on the employment
situation. Of course, rising wages and rising retail prices is exactly
what modern economic planners said was no longer possible. As with
Covid, nature seems to be resisting the efforts of our experts.

The reason that the vast administrative state has been accepted by
people is it looked like it was working as promised. The various
financial crisis did not result in bread lines like they did in the
past. Instead, men in suits pulled levers in the Federal Reserve and
Treasury to navigate around the crisis. The retail economy was brimming
with new products and services, making life more comfortable.
Managerialism has been accepted because it seemed to be working.

The question that has never been tested is whether the administrative
state can withstand an internal crisis. Managing through a natural
disaster is a very different thing than managing an irreconcilable
contradiction within the system itself. This is what the administrative
state is now facing. If the problem of this age is the system, there is
no systemic solution. In fact, every effort by the system to address the
crisis is seen as contributing to the crisis.

This is what brought down the Soviet system. All systems become
sclerotic over time, as any software engineer will tell you. The social
software of the Soviet empire became so burdened with patches and
workarounds that it eventually crashed. The software of a society is the
internal logic of it. When those rules begin to fail everyone questions
the system itself. This sets of a dynamic where the system fails, a
patch is made and confidence declines until eventually no one trusts the
system at all.

We may be seeing something similar with liberal democracy. In order to
justify itself, it looks for crises to manage, often creating them, but
lurching from crisis to crisis is making it less competent at the
basics. As people begin to lose trust in the software of liberal
democracy, the system administrators are releasing poorly thought out
updates and lecturing the users about their conduct. The result is a
spiral of increasing incompetence and decreasing trust in the system.

At the heart of the current crisis is a question never asked. That is,
can the administrative state survive its own failures. A bad king in a
monarchy can be replaced by the next in line. The bad office holder in a
republic can voted out of office in favor of someone new. What happens
when vast swaths of the administrative state have become gangrenous? How
is that addressed. How are the rotten bits removed and who is given the
authority to remove them?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The crackdown by the oligarchs on dissidents has had the happy result of
a proliferation of new ways to support your favorite creator. If you
like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="JzaGTPLByxzQk/SwUrTxmg==cb7d73WJ5O5v6WB6jamjJ71pVnzAxHnXc18o8UrOqebU8k1RKb0G3j5PyY1vTUpVN7D"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="pFyo8CeIFhU0hHWomrhOdQ==cb7jIOupa4HVARy5ilajFsZQmD3uTgeXF4BGbirDKNd8ZEnkgX2hir68IG2d8iKuWdk"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
