---
title: "Woke Dawn"
date: "2022-01-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-01-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=26477"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=26477"
---

A popular bit of wish-casting among conventional conservatives has been
the line “Go Woke, go broke”. This is the unfounded belief that the
companies embracing the latest cultural Marxist fads are being punished
by the marketplace. It has become a Pavlovian chant among the sorts of
people who comment at sites like Breitbart, whenever they do a story on
a major brand jumping on the identity train. The fact that no one has
gone broke does not seem to register with them.

This is why Hollywood, which should be the most sensitive to the
marketplace, proudly embraces the latest cultural Marxist fads. Contrary
to the claims in this <a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10391261/Hollywood-barely-whisper-wokeness-kill-industry-PETER-KIEFER-PETER-SAVODNIK.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> at the Daily Mail, Hollywood
knows they have no fears of going broke. They have been siding with the
cultural commissars since the dawn of the mass media age. Watch an old
Chaplin film and his communism jumps out, even without sound. Watch a
film like the Manchurian Candidate and the politics are plain.

One reason Hollywood has no fear of going broke is they know most people
will find a way to look past the propaganda. They can pack a superhero
movie with a lot of propaganda, as long as they also pack in the special
effects. The people rushing off to see this stuff are too culturally
illiterate to catch the messaging anyway. Even if they do see it, they
happily filter it out so they can enjoy the explosions and cartoon fight
scenes that are the main draw off these shows.

There is also the fact that people have to watch something. The reason
Soviet cinema was hugely influential on American cinema is because it
existed. Even in the most repressive regimes, entertainment flourishes.
Stalin understood the power of movies, he was a huge film buff, and not
just because of the propaganda. He knew, as all authoritarians know, the
people need their entertainment. This is why he supported Soviet film
and so much of it was produced.

The Soviet citizens were happy to consume it. The typical urbanite in
communist Moscow consumed party product then waited for the next party
product. Sure, the stories were wrapped around popular communist themes,
but they also had all of the human drama and plot twists of any other
story. Obviously, there was no box office, but the party kept track of
what was popular and rewarded those filmmakers who were popular with
Soviet audiences.

This has always been the paradox of marketism. The people who preach the
power of the marketplace never look up to notice that the market does
not work like their libertarian textbooks claim. The cereal aisle at
your local market is not a bizarre full of vendors demanding your
attention. It is a couple of cereal makers, one main link in the supply
chain and strategically planned shelf space. Your decision was made for
you long before you discovered the joy of Cap’n Crunch®.

The reason is, not all consumers are the same. The guy with power
commands more attention than the guy with no power. Every Soviet
filmmaker thought first of what Stalin would like and then what the
party would like in the same way that Hollywood frets about what the
cultural commissars are thinking. The reason is the people who insure
and underwrite films care about those things too. The “me too” movement
revealed that Hollywood is an effect, not a cause of culture.

This is why the ad makers have erased white men from their ads. The
people making the ads do not care about the consumers. Why should they?
They are not the customer for the ad maker. The customer is the bitter,
middle-aged single woman decorating the C-suites at the corporate
client. They need to hear they are empowered; despite the fact they have
pointless jobs as ornaments. The ad makers know their business, so they
sell them ads that tell them they are important.

That is one aspect of this explosion of cultural madness. The last
thirty years has seen an explosion in credentialed luxury people. These
are people who went through the credentialing system, told at every step
that their life not only has meaning to them but is vital to the world,
only to find themselves doing busy work. Ask the diversity officer what
she does for a living and the shame on her face is obvious. At some
level, she knows her life really has no meaning whatsoever.

Of course, to many it is just a grift. Watch a video on the life of a
pornographer and you see the same ethical reality you see with many of
the people pushing diversity. Robin DiAngelo is a grifter and she has
always known it. She is not morally troubled by her grift, because she
has the moral compass of a pimp. The big diversity conferences look like
a white bread version of the
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tt_wGmuGfWI" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Players Ball</a>. The reason is the people involved at
the top of the game have the mentality of a hustler.

This falseness is why the “diversity” is usually ridiculous. When they
cast a black actor to play Henry VIII, it is not for diversity. Sure, in
their pitch meeting the people plotting this will make the proper
noises, but that is just part of the process. This is just the easiest,
laziest way to tick the box and get attention for it. Otherwise, nothing
has to be changed, as the “diverse” version is just the previous version
with different costumes and the costume is the actor’s skin.

A good recent example of this is the Amazon series *The Wheel of Time*.
It is a fantasy show based on a novel series of the same name. When it
debuted it got some press for its diversity, but that lasted a week. The
reason is the industry sponsored fan sites care as much about diversity
as the writers, which is not much at all. What mattered is the sensitive
psyche of the harridans at their one client, Amazon. They wanted lots of
skin tone, so they were shown lots of skin tone.

That is why the diversity is shallower than the writing and dialogue.
All of the characters are stock figures from the fantasy series casting
company. In fact, other than skin tone, the series is less diverse than
an NBA team. This is a fantasy show so the writers could have produced a
variety of different and complex races, but that would be more trouble
than it is worth. Once Amazon saw the cast, they quickly signed the show
for a second season, because the right boxes were ticked.

A truth of life is that all societies are hierarchical. Democracy and
capitalism are very clever ways for the elites to drug the masses into
thinking they have a say in how society is managed. There is always
someone in charge of every human group and America is no different.
Those people have embraced this weird religion we call wokeness and they
intend to impose it on society. The marketplace is not going to
magically protect you from this madness.

On the other hand, it does tempt people from the fog of democracy and
the marketplace into the sober reality of human organization. Before
these cultural pogroms launched thirty years ago, the typical
right-winger was sure all he needed to do is vote harder and buy the
right brand of cereal. Despite their rhetoric, the typical left-winger
also bought into the myth of democracy and the marketplace. They thought
the will of the people mattered to the decision makers.

Now, the right is increasingly skeptical of democracy and the
marketplace. Reality is beginning the breakthrough and that is largely
due to the wokeness. The old Left is also having to reevaluate their
view of these things. The political divide is forming up around the old
“who? whom?” partisanship. There are those with power and access to
power and those who have no power. The people with power wear wokeness
like it is a symbol of party rank. Everyone else now gets to see it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="eJBBHQ9pxU5ZsNFe8MlCPg==cb7k/hxImnLQtuj+BVxHGvjQpsIKUFLOh1Hgi4omch9nV1se4JdMf7bJMiSSeCaNYYx"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="I9+th8zmZ+V2Kkxt0z+43A==cb7J9EzJf11acg+w2frT/IblqNzh9qoj+zHcgZ23H1iY838+M6s90D4cJVjyTI1T5WP"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
