---
title: "European Zionism"
date: "2022-05-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-05-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27422"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27422"
---

**Note:** In a break from the grifter code, I am not going to assume the
new merch is the greatest merch in history. Criticisms and suggestions
are welcome. This is new ground for me, so I expect to be terrible at
first and get better over time. Please shop
<a href="https://libertasbella.com/collections/the-z-man" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> and leave a comment when you can. Also send
feedback to me.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the queer things about American politics is that you can be
enthusiastically in support of Israel, even though Israel advocates an
ideology that is expressly banned in American politics. The Israelis are
ethno-nationalists. The official policy of the state of Israel is blood
and soil nationalism. Ben Shapiro once advocated for the “removal” of
non-Jews from Israel and he faced no backlash. In fact, this position
boosted his standing on the American Right.

In contrast, if you say that America should not let everyone in who
shows up at the border, you are called a white nationalist. The
mainstream media celebrates the “great replacement” but if you question
the decency of the great replacement, you are condemned as some sort of
monster. If you notice anything about demographics, you could have a mob
at your door. What is celebrated with regards to Israel is the most
heinous crime you can commit in America.

There are lots of people who recognize the contradiction, but the fact
remains, most white people in America are fine with it. As long as they
can celebrate Israel there is no price they refuse to pay. For most
white people in America, loving Israel brings a sense of peace in a
troubled world. The reason, of course, is it is an acceptable outlet for
ethnocentric impulses. Israel does not exist as a real place for
Americans. She is an abstraction, an allowable team to support for
cultural reasons.

A stark example is the contrast between Greg Johnson, the author of *The
White Nationalist Manifesto* and Yoram Hazony, the author of the *Virtue
of Nationalism*, two books on the exact same subject. Both books make
the exact same claims about people and human organization. Both argue
for nations to organized around the interests of a dominant ethnic
group. Both authors demand a homeland for their people that is only for
their people.

Greg Johnson has been made into a pariah, suffering in a form of
internal exile, while Yoram Hazony gets to run big expensive conferences
funded by Western oligarchs and attended by famous people. The
difference, of course, is Hazony is a famous outspoken Zionist from
Israel and his efforts are on behalf of the Jewish state. Johnson is a
white nationalist who advocates for white people. The typical white
person in America does not find this contradiction troubling in the
least.

This contradiction has been obvious for a long time and it has been
pointed out by various groups when it suits them. The Left used to
criticize Israel for being a fascist or apartheid state. That is not as
popular today, but it does come up from time to time, an issue Hazony
addresses in his writings. On the Right, patriots have often pointed out
that they simply want policies acceptable in Israel, like immigration
control, to be applied to the United States. The contradiction persists,
however.

It has been popular with certain types to blame this contradiction on
some sort of conspiracy, but events in Europe suggest it is something
else. The war in Ukraine has suddenly brought nationalists, who have
been marginalized for generations, in league with internationalists, in
opposition to Russia. Nationalists across Europe are now blindly in
support of Ukraine and in opposition to Russia. Most of them repeat the
agit-prop that comes from Washington.

The insanity on display cannot be overstated. Nationalists will claim
with a straight face that they oppose Russia because it is an aggressive
empire. Yet, they are throwing in with the Global American Empire, which
is promising to erase the last vestiges of European culture and replace
it with consumerism. Nationalists may as well put corporate logos on
themselves. Perhaps add their own color to the rainbow flag that is the
symbol of Americanism around the world now.

It is a bizarre spectacle. For decades, European nationalists had
nothing much to say about Russia, other than some observations of the
fact that she had not been homogenized into generic American culture.
The Visegrád nations have also come in for admiration from nationalists
for resisting the cultural decline. Otherwise, nationalists have not had
much to say about the East. Now, they are obsessed with Russia and swear
they have always been at war with Eurasia.

The most bizarre example of this is Finland. The tiny country tucked
away in the northeast of Europe has long been a neutral player in
European politics. This was how she maintained herself as an independent
country. Finnish nationalism was built on a nuanced understanding of her
neighbors, especially Russia. Today, Finnish nationalism is nothing more
than unthinking hatred of Russia. They repeat Washington talking points
and sound like unhinged neocons in support of empire.

What is happening in Europe is opposition to Russia is now an acceptable
outlet for the natural ethnic pride of Europeans. The West is
underwriting literal Nazis in Ukraine, but that is acceptable because
they oppose Russia. Nationalists now feel they can come out of the
shadows, as long as they too hate Russia. In fact, many nationalists
have signed on to fight in Ukraine. Every day there are reports of
foreign mercenaries being killed or captured in the Donbas.

Just as being a Zionist is an acceptable outlet for nationalist impulses
in America, being anti-Russian is an acceptable outlet for nationalism
in Europe. The nationalists have even picked up on the idiotic claim
that Russia is a multi-racial empire, which is a staggeringly ignorant
argument. It is one thing for provincial clodhoppers in America to say
such a thing, but Europeans should know better. Their emotional need to
be a part of something, however, has overrode their intellects.

That is another interesting piece to this. In America, most white people
are as ignorant of Israel as they are everything else about the world.
Americans are famously provincial, so the Zionist-White Nationalist
parallels are not obvious. Ukraine is in the backyard of European
nationalists. Many are anti-Semites. Despite this, they fully support a
puppet regime of Washington run by a Jewish comedian, doing the bidding
of the neoconservative cabal that runs American foreign policy.

What is happening in Europe is what we have seen in America. The
nativism and national pride of the heritage population is being
channeled into activism on behalf of the Global America Empire. In
America, this energy goes to support Israel, while in Europe it will be
channeled into hatred of Russians. It is no surprise that Yoram Hazony
is trying to attach himself to this new anti-Russian sentiment in
Europe. Look for his next conference in your country this summer.

The usual suspects, of course, will claim that this is the work of the
usual suspects, but there is another example of this that says
otherwise. In the Covid panic, many in the HBD community, who had been
living in the shadows of the biological sciences, jumped on the Covid
madness with the zeal of a lunatic. People who spent careers criticizing
media claims about biology suddenly accepted everything the media had to
say about the Covid pandemic, no matter how ridiculous.

The driver in the HBD-to-Covidian lane was the fact that smart people
who had been excluded from polite society suddenly sensed an opening.
Instinctively they sensed they could join the conversation, as this was
their wheelhouse. They tackled the issue with all the enthusiasm they
could muster. Inevitably they signed onto the most draconian measures by
people who say sex is a social construct and demand you announce your
pronouns when entering a room.

Of course, this never provided a lane back to respectability for them,
which should be a lesson for both Christian Zionists and European
Nationalists. The morality of the Global American Empire is the morality
of the Western managerial elite. That morality is entirely situational,
based on partisan concerns. Today, certain nationalists are acceptable
because they serve present needs, but tomorrow their supporters will be
thrown in dungeons, because it serves the elites.

In the end we are left with two parallel phenomena. The contradiction of
American Zionism serves the interest of empire. It was Christian Zionist
who supported the wars in the Middle East. Now European nationalism is
being retarded to oppose Russia on behalf of the empire, which
explicitly rejects European nationalism. In the former case, a distant
enemy is used to conceal the enemy at home. In Europe, a local enemy is
used to conceal the enemy across the sea.

Finally, and most importantly, a kernel of truth lies at the heart of
the deception. In the case of American Zionism, the truth is that people
naturally want to be organized around their racial and ethnic identity.
In the case of this new European Zionism, the kernel of truth is that
people naturally resist empire. In the former, the truth is channeled
away from questioning the logic of empire. In the latter, the truth is
channeled away from opposing the empire. In both cases, it is seeds cast
among stones.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="TGNKu4WHOMp3n1HPfCOQvg==cb7VMmLbvXPh0XwVtnzEOXYYCQblq1U7VcTmOiJHfaJn/LAkLdiD2+f41PlbV5ngv0C"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="MlZjaA3X9aot45V+cRoWQA==cb7b8SZ8AE526ox2YJViBNA3fwD6urAlkLigGCiZsbPdSEJQHfAZ6XFo4MRY5FhoLhw"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
