---
title: "Thinking About The Possible"
date: "2022-06-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-06-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27675"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27675"
---

A popular setup for the cooking shows is a gameshow format in which the
contestants are forced to cook a meal using the wrong ingredients. Maybe
they have to compete for ingredients and all of them end up with a
partial list of required items. Maybe they are given wacky items and
tasked with making a traditional dish. The secret ingredient is aardvark
noses and the dish is chicken cacciatore. The entertainment is in
watching them solve the puzzle in amusing ways.

The underlying truth of these shows is that a dish is not just the sum
of its ingredients or just the skill of the chef. The dishes that are
famous in our culture are the combination of ingredients in the right
proportions, assembled by people with the skill and cultural
understanding to create the dish. A Spanish guy who grew up on paella
knows how it is supposed to look and taste. He may be able to get the
same effect using ingredients not traditionally used in the dish.

This is the truth of politics. The old line about politics, that it is
the art of the possible, depends on the same set of assumptions. To get
something passed through a legislature, you have to get a majority.
Outside of symbolic items like momentary resolutions, this means finding
a compromise that a majority can accept. Put another way, in order to
get a bill passed the ingredients for it must exist. Then you need
someone to assemble those ingredients into the final bill.

Strangely, when the subject moves up into meta politics and political
philosophy, this understanding gets tossed away in favor of the blank
sheet approach. It is just assumed that the remnants of today, after the
collapse of course, will be easily swept away and a new system can be
built from scratch. After the revolution, the winners will get to
conjure from nothing a new political system. The facts and events that
led to the great starting over are left out of the discussion.

This blank slate mentality infects the Left and Right. For the Left, the
glorious future that is free of suffering and exploitation is otherwise
undefined. In fact, its lack of specifics is the appeal. They just know
they will be able to fish in the morning, hunt in the afternoon, rear
cattle in the evening and do critical theory at night. In other words,
the glorious future can be what the believer wants it to be because the
future will be free of all of the things that made the glorious future
possible.

For the Right, this blank slate thinking imagines a do-over based on a
fictional understanding of the past. The Founders, for example,
assembled in Philadelphia to draft the Constitution, carrying loads of
virgin parchment. They were going to start from scratch and create what
they hoped would be their ideal republic. The American conservative
imagines himself going back to that time, with the knowledge of today,
to help tidy up the bits that have gone wrong.

Of course, the reality of the founding is something different. The
Founders came together like the contestants on those cooking shows. They
had a vague idea of what they wanted to make. They knew they had a
limited set of ingredients. They also had the experience of the prior
effort to create a national government. These were practical men focused
on what was possible given the constraints of the age. They were not
dreamers and idealist. They were wizened realists.

Left-wing people are incapable of thinking in these terms because what
attracts them to the various subcultures on the Left is the desire to
escape this fallen world. It is why facts and reason have no effect on
their politics. Right-wing people, in contrast, are much more realistic
about the human condition. They should be inclined to focus on what is
possible, given the ingredients, than they are, which raises the
question as to whether there even is a genuine Right.

Putting that aside, if one wants to imagine what comes next for America,
the place to start is the ingredient list. Just as the Founders had to
think first about what was possible with the ingredients at their
disposal, the man of the Right in this age must first think hard about
the ingredient list. What sort of civic life will be possible in America
given the probable list of ingredients. There is some uncertainty on
some of them, like technology, but others are better understood.

For example, there is no avoiding demographics. By the middle of this
century, just a generation away, American will be a nonwhite society.
That means that the people taking up positions of authority in two
decades will have spent their entire lives as a minority in a society
made by white people. Whatever civic life is possible will be one where
Nick Fuentes and Ocasio-Cortez are typical. That is not a demographic
for which the Founders designed the Constitution.

Is it possible to have a society with things like equality before the
law when the society is composed of adversarial tribes? Of course, the
idea of the individual being the building block is not going to hold up
in a world where competing groups fight for the spoils of society. On
the other hand, maybe there is a common ground in a fragmented,
multiracial society around which to build a politics. What unifying set
of understandings or beliefs could emerge in the society of the future?

There is also the possibility that civil society is impossible under the
conditions that are shaping up at the moment. Immigration is a good
example. America has no border as a practical matter, yet the public
seems to be fine with it. Maybe that changes as the reality of this
becomes clear to people. There has been some movement in the polling on
immigration. On the other hand, the rulers are for open borders so that
will be the policy until events force a change at the top.

That brings up the other important ingredient. The starting point for a
new politics based in the reality of society is that it can only come
after events lead to a replacement of the current elites with a new
elite. How that happens will cast a long shadow over those tasked with
shaping a new society. The Founders were certainly affected by their
experience in the war against England. What will that conflagration look
like and how will it impact the people who come after it?

An honest examination of the present trends says that two things are
true about current politics and what comes next. One is that there is
nothing to be done to arrest the current trends. It does not mean they
will continue indefinitely, but that they will run their course to their
logical end. The other assumption is that the ingredients available to
build a civic society in the future will look nothing like the past. In
fact, it is possible that a civil society as we understand it is not
going to be possible.

The point of this exercise is that the past is not going to be terribly
useful for the people tasked with creating a civil society in the
future. Western man will soon find himself in the same situation as
those cooking show contestants. Their training and skill at making
traditional dishes is often a liability when they are handed bizarre
ingredients like aardvark lips and bat testicles. The clean sheet of
paper is in their mind, not the canvas on which they will create their
masterpiece.

This is the next phase of dissident thinking. The critiques of this age
and its causes is nearly complete. What must come next is acceptance
that there will be no great restoration after the revolution. Instead,
what comes next will start with the available ingredients and the
experience of the failure of this age. That is a hard project but
whoever shapes the future will first have started out with a plan for a
future that lies within the possible, rather than fantasies of the past.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. Itâ€™s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.Â  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Ll5Dn/gpWhISN5IJjWpYyw==cb7qO5rWpKBss44f84KMAtvXOUCHX/Hkq6wPdKhGUDiH6xm97wlCr8Sa8cYcxN1X1aO"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="XTMlIcK3E2bvPfJI+mNalg==cb7DAkVorXhG6To3AgYuG9KGEtPlBn06Us8ArzKL174/46rjefI9ZIeMQVMJLeMs2xV"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
