---
title: "Ideological Capture"
date: "2022-06-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2022-06-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=27519"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=27519"
---

Image that you are a management type and you get hired into the third
tier of management at a good sized firm. The top tier is the executive
staff like the CFO and CEO who control the overall direction of the
firm. The second tier is the policy making tier, like vice presidents
and regional directors. They take the vision of the top tier and turn
into company policy. The tier into which you have been hired is tasked
with implementing and enforcing these company policies.

Further, let us assume you are an enthusiastic follower of a management
style that is called “management by committee.” You think the best way
to run any organization is through committees that debate amongst
themselves and then create reports that some other committee turns into
directives. Your new job is in a company that is still in growth mode,
so they are not burdened with management philosophy. The third tier is
just supposed to get the job done.

Soon into your new job you find other fans of the MBC school and you
form a clique within the company. None of your bosses are MBC types, but
they are not hostile to your ideas, just as long as the job gets done.
One of the ideas you talk them into is having managers in the third tier
incorporated into the hiring process. Candidates for management jobs
will sit before a committee of middle managers who will then pass on
their assessment to the people making the hire.

You are a committee guy so you make sure to be on this committee and you
get your buddies in the committee subculture on the committee as well.
This is exactly the sort of innovation you have been seeking. The
“promise” of this new step is that people hired in will fit the general
culture. As a practical matter, it means the committee will select for
people who like committees. It does not take long before adherence to
the management by committee philosophy is a selection criterion.

Since there is a decent amount of turnover in the middle and lower
management ranks, it does not take too long before most managers are
committee men. This new selection process, controlled by committee men,
selects for committee men or the type who could be groomed into
committee men. A big part of the management by committee philosophy is
grooming normal people into the committee lifestyle. Being a committee
man is a de facto requirement for employment.

The second tier of management has far less turnover than the third and
fourth tier, as these are important posts that pay exceptionally well.
By their very nature there are few of these jobs in any company, so
there is not a lot of circulation, but from time to time a spot does
open in this layer. Ideally, the executive layer selects from the third
tier of managers to fill these roles. Presumably, these are people who
know company culture and have been vetted through trial and error.

Because you and your fellow committee men have been selecting for
committee men in the ranks of management, the options for the executive
staff when it comes time to fill a vice president slot is all committee
men. The management by walking around guy who ran the West Coast
division retires and there is no one like him to bump up into his
position, because that type does not exist on the bench. That means
hiring from outside or elevating a committee man into the second tier.

The executive staff of the company is now faced with a crisis. While
they were busy with setting the general direction of the company, they
have been infested with a new management style that now limits their
range of motion. If they want to change the company culture, say reduce
the number of meetings and standing committees, it means making
wholesale changes in the ranks. Alternatively, it means finding a way to
make this new management paradigm work.

Now, if instead of starting point being a middle manager from a
management cult it is a homosexual priest, a climate change crank or a
neoconservative. The homosexual priest gets into the ranks and starts to
agitate for his people and before long you have a lot of homosexual
priests. This is how climate change cranks have infested the ranks of
energy and environment to the point where they control these areas in
the managerial class, publicly and privately.

The neocons are front and center at the moment and they are the most
obvious example of this process. Over time they have infiltrated every
nook and cranny of the foreign policy establishment. When the Democrat
president takes over for a Republican, the neocons who infest Republican
ranks move out to think tanks, while the neocons who infest Democratic
ranks take their positions in government. When the parties swap again,
the neocons swap again.

If like the executive management of the hypothetical company, you are
the new president with a rational vision for foreign policy, you will be
faced with the problem of finding anyone who is not neocons. Everyone
with any experience in the State Department, foreign service or national
security is going to be a member of the bizarre cult that has taken over
these fields. Before you could do anything, it means a revolution within
these areas of government.

Something similar is happening with energy. Putting together a rational
energy policy is impossible because everyone in that sector is now
committed to the “green agenda” which embraces irrational energy
policies. Notice that the response to the war in Ukraine is a series of
policies that harm normal people in the West by furthering the agenda of
the environmental movement. The war in Ukraine has given license to the
people making war on climate change.

This is why elections are now meaningless. So meaningless, in fact, that
they will slowly go away entirely. The ruler of Italy, for example, was
not elected. He was installed by Brussels, which is not elected either.
The response to Russia is being crafted in Brussels, not the capitals of
Europe. Closer to home, elections are now just an orgy of absurd
corruption like ballot harvesting, mail in voting and so on. Why try to
convince people when you can just make up the results?

The collapse of elections is just a reflection of reality. You can vote
yourself bloody, but the people holding office are faced with the same
dilemma as the executive managers in the above example. They must fill
their staff from the pool of true believers that exist in the Washington
policy establishment. They are set upon by true believers from think
tanks and lobbying firms, who actually write the legislation. They are
swimmers trying to change the direction of the ocean.

What we are witnessing is ideological capture. This is where a small,
but committed group can wield majority power, as long as the majority is
divided into smaller groups or not bound by an alternative ideology. The
homosexuals could infiltrate the priesthood because the Church was not
explicitly anti-homosexual. The normal priest worried about the issue
would be outnumbered by the pink mafia and have no internal structure on
which to rely for support in the fight.

The priest problem is good example of how you cannot solve the problem
of ideological capture with rules or systems. The Church had rules
against raping altar boys and fornication, but that did not deter the
homosexual priests. Instead, they organized to take over the system in
order to get around these prohibitions. It turns out that rules and
principles are no match for a dedicated minority that has no respect for
the spirit behind those rules and principles.

This is the problem faced all over the managerial class. Any reform
attempt must start with the removal of the infestation. In the case of
foreign policy, it means a decapitation of the neocon establishment,
both in government and outside government. You would have to fire
everyone, remove their security clearances and maybe put a few in jail
to publicly discredit the cult. Given the scale involved, that may not
be possible, even if a president was committed to it.

The same process would have to happen with the climate cranks who have
infested energy and environment. The regulatory state is now stocked
with people who think their lawnmower is out to get them. The same holds
for the Department of Justice and the FBI, as we saw in the Trump years.
The managerial class has been captured by what should be described as a
cult. Across the system, members of this bizarre new religion now wield
power and control policy.

This is the truth of ideological capture. Once the infection sets in,
the rules are slowly turned to the favor of the ideologues. Therefore,
any effort to use the rules to disinfect the system ends up profiting
the ideologues. The people vote for George Bush and they get Lyndon
Johnson. They vote for Barak Obama and they get a different version of
Lyndon Johnson. They vote for Trump and they get Nixon. The outputs no
longer reflect inputs, because the rules no longer matter.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

The good folks at Alaska Chaga are offering a ten percent discount to
readers of this site. You just click on the
<a href="https://alaskachaga.us/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener noreferrer"
target="_blank">this link</a> and they take care of the rest. About a
year ago they sent me some of their stuff. Up until that point, I had
never heard of chaga, but I gave a try and it is very good. It is a tea,
but it has a mild flavor. It’s autumn here in Lagos, so it is my daily
beverage now.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="SSVN8+D0eCJbIUMQzfQl4g==cb74C4WE+k2PhLg5pbOtM+5J7qka4xzzfFI8T9lJU6TgsbjkRyjGed0cHawfiYdd+nV"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="BkDh0w8cBufl5ILdSaRPIw==cb7Mgr0gq0E72nTYF/wD1CCtC03x2fFA37+W1pZliVFvyxvJF1waaxHtSg3eqwS1piP"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
