---
title: "The Long Collapse"
date: "2023-12-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31295"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31295"
---

**Note:** Our good friend Ed Dutton has a new
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Naked-Classroom-Evolutionary-Psychology-School/dp/B0CP5VNDJW)
titled, *The Naked Classroom: The Evolutionary Psychology of Your Time
at School*. While watching paint dry I intend to read it and post up a
review this week. Please but two copies, one for yourself and one for a
friend or family member.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note:** Behind the green door I have a post titled *Eloi, Morlocks and
the Cable Guy*, a post titled *Missing The Executioner*, and the Sunday
podcast. You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Societal collapse is a topic that has always had a following, especially
on this side of the great divide, despite the fact that there are no
signs of it. You can point to current trends and say they could one day
lead to collapse, something like the systemic abuse of the money supply
or the degradation of the American military. On the other hand, liberal
democracies have shown an ability to self-correct. The money supply and
the military were a mess in the 1970’s until they were fixed.

The closest we have come to witnessing the collapse of a complex society
was the disintegration of the Soviet Union. Over a thirty-year period,
the member nations of the communist bloc had slowly integrated their
economies and military, under the umbrella the communist world, so when
these countries broke free, what followed was a period of chaos that
eventually spread to Russia itself. The 1990’s were a dark time in
Russia, marked by lawlessness and social chaos.

Even so, these countries that made up the the communist world did not
disintegrate after the fall of the Soviet Union. The captive nations
quickly reoriented themselves economically and politically toward the
West. Russia had a dark period of chaos and confusion, but eventually
regained itself. In other words, these societies did not collapse, even
though the political-economy collapsed. They simply had to refashion
their economics and politics, which they did.

Another example might be Iraq after the United States toppled Saddam.
The main reason Iraq fell into chaos and the American military had to
fight a guerilla war to gain control of the country was the old system
collapsed. Of course, that would not have happened if not for the
thousands of tons of explosive dropped on the country by the American
military. It was more of a self-controlled demolition more than a
collapse of a complex society in the Joseph Tainter sense of the phrase.

The coming year may provide some examples that are not quite what
Tainter described, but not quite like the recent examples either.
Ukraine, for example, seems to be on the cusp of collapse after two long
years of war. The political class is in turmoil, leading many to predict
a coup against Zelensky. The army is running out of men and material to
hold back the Russians. Both Europe and Washington are now slow-walking
future aid due to the growing problems in the country.

It is possible that we see something like Iraq, where a guerilla army
forms up after the regular army collapses. The Bandera elements could
try to seize power, leading to a civil war between them and other
factions. The minority groups in the West could see this as a chance to
gain their freedom. The term *Carpatho-Ruthenian* could start appearing
in Western media. There could also be a general collapse of civil order,
including the operation of the infrastructure.

Unlike Iraq, there is a sidecar to this that bears watching. For two
years much of the political class in the West has been convinced that
Ukraine just needs to hold the line, as the Russians will eventually
collapse. This was the prediction made at the start by the neocons who
control Western foreign policy. We are seeing some glimpses of
politicians waking up to reality. No one knows what will happen when
reality comes rushing in like a winter wind blowing open the door.

It is not just a credibility issue here. Hundreds of billions of booty
have been promised by those politicians to powerful interests. For
example, Blackrock has been buying up land rights in Ukraine, expecting
a Ukraine victory. What happens when the new Ukraine government
repudiates these deals? No one really knows how much money has changed
hands on the assumption that Western oligarchs will get to plunder the
place after the Ukrainians defeat the Russians.

It is easy to forget that the imaginary world in which our rulers
operate is their reality, so when that reality slams into genuine
reality, there will be consequences. We tend to think of collapse in
terms of practical things not working but collapse also applies to
narrative frameworks and beliefs. For over thirty years the Global
American Empire has rested on the assumptions that arise from being an
invisible force. When that premise is no longer valid, there will be
consequences.

Of course, there are important elections coming in the next year. The
most significant of which is un the United States. The only Ukraine
skeptic is Donald Trump, who could be forced off the ticket for that
reason. People forget that Trump’s primary crime against the regime, as
far as the regime is concerned, is his opposition to the neocons. They
slimed him with the Russian collusion hoax and then impeached him over
Ukraine. A collapse of Ukraine will add some spice to this already spicy
stew.

If they do force Trump off the ballot, that means the candidates in the
general election will be Ukraine fanatics controlled by the neocons.
Imagine the 2008 election was between John McCain and John Bolton,
against the backdrop of the Iraq fiasco and you have a glimpse of a
possible future. If on the other hand Trump is on the ballot, imagine
him pounding away at this every day until election day. It is possible
that 2024 makes 2016 look like a debate at the philatelic society.

Closer to home, in the dissident sphere, a weird subculture has
developed around Ukraine and the war. This <a
href="https://odysee.com/@joeldavis:0/Mark-Collett-vs.-Greg-Johnson---the-Ukraine-debate:1"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">debate</a> provides a nice summary of
their beliefs. It is as if the people in that pro-Ukraine subculture
were given a potion by the neocons that causes them to repeat all of
their most absurd claims, without realizing they are parroting the
people they claim to oppose. If Ukraine collapses, we could witness
something similar to what happened with the Seekers in this
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/When_Prophecy_Fails"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">famous study</a>.

Failure has consequences and collapse is a form of failure. Unlike a
typo or a math error, collapse takes with it whole systems of thought
and belief because it is the result of those systems and beliefs. Maybe
all of this is avoided, and Ukraine bumps along to some new arrangements
that avoids a catastrophe. That is something Tainter observed about the
modern age. Collapse is much more difficult because all human systems
are interconnected, so they have external support.

Ukraine will provide a test of that in 2024. Russia does not want
collapse, as that just makes their task more difficult. The Poles do not
want millions more Ukrainian refugees, so they do not want collapse.
There are forces withing Ukraine that would like a soft landing, even if
it means capitulating to Russia. Maybe Tainter is right, and the
structure of the West will prevent collapse. On the other hand, the
failure of Project Ukraine is just one step in the collapse of the West.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="cRMGCO7q2GThfMKREhIL8w==cb7zcTfvet1x5TSZWAJATTLdBRnHuFzczI3FrKqkLPgdPqjELdLfDEEcf9nM0Q3CiUL"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="8IqHhfnDjVWWZyFC5hTPfQ==cb7SNmT1IlU5SWGncUhSah+6QPgUy81tl/rvBVbC0o+Zk0xHeV0AspPfMEgQT0H6B/m"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
