---
title: "Who Decides?"
date: "2023-12-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31240"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31240"
---

If you were to boil down the current crisis in America, and in the West
in general, you could do worse than a simple question, who decides? The
central struggle at the heart of it all is who decides things like
economic policy, trade policy, social policy, and immigration policy. On
issue after issue, the ultimate question comes down to who gets the
final say on the matter. Given the endless talk of democracy, this
should be a settled question, but it is the central question of the age.

You can see this when you get away from the coastal cities and drive out
into the areas the beautiful people try to avoid. Charles Town West
Virginia is a small city, a big town in reality, which is the county
seat of Jefferson County, West Virginia. Prior to recent decades it was
famous for having been named after the brother of George Washington,
Charles Washington, in the 18th century. It was also where union
organizer Bill Blizzard was tried for treason. He was found not guilty.

Otherwise, Charles Town was a sleepy little place until twenty years
ago. The old horse racing track was fixed up as part of a casino
project. Like many states in America, West Virginia thought capitalizing
on degenerates was a good idea. America is now dotted with casinos that
rely upon the state to survive. Of course, with the casino came the
other things like strip joints and the drug trade. As soon as you cross
into the city proper you see a big sign for a “gentlemen’s club.”

Who decided that Charles Town needed a casino? Who thought that was a
good idea to build strip joints? These things are often put up to a
vote, but the people are told to keep voting until they get the right
answer. The fact is a small number of people saw an opportunity to make
money off a casino in this sleepy little community, so they worked the
system until they got the right to build it. The pitch is that they
bring jobs, but no one wants their daughter working at the strip joint.

Further down the moral hierarchy from the gamblers and strip joint
operators are the developers who land on these projects like flies in a
pasture. At the first hint of government money for a get rich scheme
like a casino, the developers turn up looking to build cheap houses and
strip malls. All those people coming to work at the casinos and strip
joints will need a place to live. That means knocking down something to
put up townhouses and apartment buildings.

Of course, this also means the guy who has lived next to a farm his
whole life suddenly finds he now lives next to an apartment complex. The
guy who owned the hay farm decided that the money from the developer was
too good, so he sold the land his family held for generations and moved
to Florida. The developer sweetened the deal by promising to name the
development after the farm. Housing developments in America are always
named after what they replaced.

The guy now living next to an apartment complex is right to wonder how
his little slice of heaven turned into an urban nightmare. Who decided
that those rental units needed to be next to his home? Who decided that
there needed to be a strip mall down the road from that apartment
complex? The answer is always the same. The people who owned the land
decided, but they are gone now and the people who used to live next to
them have to contend with the consequences.

Living next to a housing development or an apartment complex might not
sound like a bad deal, given that it brings economic opportunity. Life
is trade-offs and progress is no exception to that rule. Sure, the
aesthetics of the community decline with each generic block of new
homes, but now you have a Walmart, so it means not driving to the next
town over to shop at their Walmart. This may or may not be a valid
argument, but the point is to avoid that big question, who decides?

Maybe this is for the best and the people making these decisions are
right to do what they are doing, but they should then drop the fig leaf
of democracy. If they are going to preach the glories of democracy,
while ignoring the will of the people, then it is not going to be long
before people lose faith in democracy. The great advocates of democracy
have no one to blame but themselves for the crisis of democracy. The
cause of that crisis is
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WwbNEVjW9jQ" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">we were never asked</a>.

If the guy who now finds himself driving his family past a strip joint
every Sunday on the way to church knows who decided to put that strip
joint in his community, he at least knows who to blame. He can appeal to
that person or group of people to move that strip joint away from his
church. Even if the guy deciding is actually in a swank Manhattan office
and lives in a mansion in Connecticut, he is still a man who calls
somewhere home and therefore he can be reached.

If the decision is being made by the nebulous concept of democracy,
where voting never seems to make a difference, then that man telling his
kids that the apartment complex where the cops are always at used to be
a farm, owned by a family that first came to the state at the founding,
has every right to wonder if the real cause of the problem is that
nebulous thing called democracy. Maybe he would be better served by
someone, anyone, who takes responsibility for these decisions.

Counterintuitively, this is why economic elites love democracy and
socialism. This is something the Marxists never anticipated or ever
understood. Democracy and socialism put the people’s stamp of approval
on the economic relations. The guy who decided to put a housing
development in your town gets to keep all the money while the people
living with his choices get to pretend it is their fault. The greatest
trick the ruling class ever pulled is in convincing the people they do
not exist.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="QlIO0m8dKNys9JxrhfWTIg==cb7lBB36qSrQVIrm8VzOWZ14QeesvqVyFeWg3owjFhHAv8dIPUZEwk3doBqszVISXGF"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="WQ+wJBTR4Ls2zI+CRh4wMA==cb7Y6I7kwY57WyrBo+9Dh2Oj7btzR4eoEdOZB9I1YHpilqxWVeabg9yLSPZLQm3Tg7V"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
