---
title: "The Tool Makers"
date: "2023-12-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31315"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31315"
---

**Note:** I did not fall off the roof or plunge to my death falling off
a ladder. I simply got busy this morning and forgot to hit the post
button. I must admit, I miss working with my hands, so this is a the
best days for me right now. I hope everyone has a great Christmas and I
will be back next week.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A feature of politics is listing all of the things that are worse than
they used to be at some point in the past. The people are dumber. The
economy is worse. The politicians are somehow dumber than in the past.
That is because politics is about morality, what we ought to be doing or
ought not to be doing. You engage in politics because you think we ought
not to be doing whatever it is we are doing or we should be doing
something that we are not doing and that is going to be trouble.

Marx observed that if we get the morality right, as in we all agree on
what ought to be done, then there is no need for politics. Imagine if
all of our politicians agreed on what needs doing, the priority of those
things and everyone agreed with them. We would no longer have politics
or politicians. Instead, we would have bureaucrats busy doing what they
are charged with doing. That is not the way of things, so we have
halfwits and lunatics yelling at one another and we call it politics.

There are lots of things that are wrong in this world, not the least of
which is politics, but there is a lot going right too. I thought about
that while on a ladder last night fixing something that needed fixing. I
noticed that the top deck of the ladder had a nice tray for holding
small bits. There were holes for holding screw drivers and a larger hole
for holding a drill. The little tray has a magnet baked into the bottom
so the little metal bits you place there will not easily fall to the
floor.

The ladder maker rightly assumed that these things would be useful to
the sort of person using the ladder. Odds are, most step ladders are
used by HVAC guys and electricians, but that is a guess. These are the
sorts of people who need drills, screwdrivers and little metal bits with
them at the top of the ladder. Perhaps this is standard on all ladders
now, but it is new to me. My tall ladder is from a different maker and
has a slightly different take on this idea.

When I was a young man working construction, you had step ladders made
of wood for electrical work and aluminum ladders for other work. The
reason you used wood ladders of electrical work is to avoid being fried
to a crisp if you made a mistake and grabbed hold of a live wire. I once
cut into a 220 line I thought was cold and it was an electrifying
experience. These days most ladders are made of fiberglass which is
better, lighter and does not conduct electricity.

Thinking about this at the top of the ladder, it occurred to be that
just about all of the tools I am using are better than when I was a
young man. I have a cordless drill that has variable speeds and does not
require a chuck key. Most importantly, it does not require a
nine-mile-long extension cord. As a teenager working construction, I
probably wrapped up six million feet of extension cord. The house is
full of tools right now and I do not see an extension cord.

The point is that there are lots of things getting better, despite the
best efforts of halfwits and lunatics who run our politics. These small
improvements in things like ladders and hand tools exist outside of the
domain of halfwits and lunatic. The guy who came up with a new top set
on a ladder was thinking about how to make a better ladder and thus make
life a bit easier for the ladder user. There are millions of people out
there who spend their days finding ways to make things better.

Of course, the people thinking about how to make a better ladder are not
the people you now see in TV ads. The smart guy in the movies is nothing
like the genuinely smart guys finding small improvements in life. The
guy in the TV ad is a figment of the imagination of people who hate the
guy who made a better ladder. That is the most important fact in the
word right now. No matter how hard the bad guys try to make the TV guy
real, he is not real, while the ladder guy is real.

That is something to keep in mind, especially in what has always been
called the season of hope in the Western world. Joe Sobran was right.
The guy making a better ladder, a better drill, a better way to patch a
hole in the wall, that guy towers over the rest of the world in ways so
large as to be almost inexpressible. The people responsible for those TV
ads are motivated by envy, because the guy making a better ladder, the
guy who invented the ladder, is the image of superiority.

The lesson of history is that human capital is what wins out in the end.
That is the iron law of the universe. It has held for ten thousand years
and will hold for ten thousand years into the future. The halfwits and
lunatics, the guys mocking you through TV ads and movies, will
eventually submit to this iron law of history. Eventually, the guys
using those better tools put down those tools and set about solving the
problem of those people behind the problems of our politics.

Merry Christmas.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="nTtGdgMNELPXUVdNiRQOvg==cb7Clf5jCR9SAFGtRuSCISro/KSE2QqGmymM0r5Pe2RI/Okn+0czif/UJHdKbck/vmp"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="PV7apRsRf4JQWc5B12iHJg==cb75Ky65p+P8OHJ2VCoqqaAfasY7QiyvHYttP5zV+TqyVRk3ZKmwDZakCiVGYRKrgLT"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
