---
title: "Managerial Madness"
date: "2023-06-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-06-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Mass Media
  - Pandemic
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30050"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30050"
---

One of the lingering questions about the Covid panic is why did the West
suddenly go insane over a regularly occurring phenomena? Pandemics hit
the West every generation or so with varying lethality. Most are like
Covid in that they are bad for the old and the sick, but mostly a bad
flu for everyone else. Once it was clear that Covid was not the Spanish
flu, much less the Black Death, the response should have been  like
those of the past, but instead we got a panic.

In the United States, the panic started when Trump announced the
cancellation of travel to and from Europe. That was March of 2020.
Europe quickly returned the favor and then the race was on to see who
could be the most egregious with regards to abusing their subjects in
the name of health and safety. In the United States that meant laughably
ridiculous policies like mask mandates, social distancing and the forced
closure of restaurants and barbershops.

Panics are what they are because they are irrational, so much of what
happened at the beginning is just mass insanity egged on by the media.
The nonsense stories about bodies stacked up in morgues kept getting
recycled because there was an eager audience of panic-stricken people.
Social media was full of people needing to feel like part of the story
by spinning personal tales to support the narrative. Many people derived
psychic pleasure from feeling like the end was nigh.

After the chubby nurses had finished their TikTok videos, someone had to
notice that the hospitals were not overwhelmed. Forgotten now, but
people got curious, defied the lockdowns, and went to their local
hospitals to see what was happening. Contrary to the reports, the
hospitals were not panicked triage centers. They were ghost towns
because everything had been cancelled except emergency care. At some
point, the staff had to know what was really happening, but they
remained silent.

That is the biggest concern about the panic. We were getting good data
on the reality of the virus by the autumn of 2020, and it was clear the
virus was something like the Asian flu or Hong Kong flu at the worst.
The doctors and nurses had to know this by late summer and early fall,
but the public health officials insisted otherwise. In fact, we now know
they colluded with the tech companies and the media to silence anyone
pointing out the facts about Covid. Why did they do this?

The most common response to this question is to shout, “money or power”
and then move onto another topic. No doubt some people made money from
the panic, and it did give the managers a sense of power. The trouble is
we had plenty of state governments go the other way on the issue of
lockdowns. Ron DeSantis is going to make a big deal of the fact he did
not succumb to the panic. He was not alone, but he had all the same
incentives as other states but did not follow the herd.

Maybe the way to think of the money and power answer here is to put it
in the context of the managerial society in which we live. The millions
of administrators and their managerial bosses finally had their war. The
people who populate the array of public and private bureaucracies
dedicated to managing some aspect of your life were finally being called
upon to defend the world from destruction. The army of public health
experts were going to have their turn on the big stage.

The managerial madness that set in and stayed with us long past when it
made any sense was not the crude form of money and power that is the
most popular answer to every question regarding the behavior of our
rulers. People were not taking bribes or gaining new authority in the
system. Instead, the vast managerial class and their administrative
underlings finally had the sense of control they had always imagined
they should have over your life.

It is important to understand that the people who populate the big
chairs in the big offices of this age have been bred for this life. They
are like dogs selectively breed for certain sorts of work. Anyone who
has owned a dachshund, for example, will tell you they have an innate
need to dig. If you let them, they will turn the backyard into the
surface of the moon trying to find whatever it is they think is there.
The wiener dog lives to root around and find what lies beneath.

Like a working dog, the people in the managerial class are bred for
their role, so they have that same desire. Instead of digging around the
backyard, they desire to manage the life of people that fall under their
area of management. In a crisis, that desire explodes in a mania of
micromanagement. In other times, it expresses itself as an endless need
to expand their roles and thus expand their control. The manager is bred
to manage, and she will manage something.

This managerial madness also explains the manufactured crisis. The same
people who went berserk over Covid made the predictable mistakes with
Ukraine war. If who you are is defined by how you handle the unexpected,
after all, you are the one your people come to handle the exceptions,
then you will be tuned to seek out the situations that need your
particular set of skills. A form of Munchausen syndrome by proxy has
infected the managerial class resulting in endless crises.

The reason the system often feels like it is shaking itself apart is
that we are plagued with people looking for a crisis to manage. That has
resulted in people finding a crisis where none exists. The end point of
a society run by managers is a society run by females standing on chairs
shrieking at imaginary mice. This also explains why females now
outnumber males in the managerial class. You see this most clearly in
health care, where the demand for crisis managers is the highest.

It must be said that a fair bit of what went on during Covid was driven
by corruption, stupidity, and avarice. The vaccine boondoggle was just a
scaled-up version of the Sackler family opioid scam. It was not the
genocide the Sackler’s committed against poor people, but there is still
time. The negative effects of the Covid vaccines will not fully be known
for a long time. A competent system would have stopped both, but
stupidity and corruption make avarice the coin of the realm.

Even accounting for the simple answers, we are left with the question as
to why the managerial class went mad with Covid. The simple answer here
is that perpetual panic is the natural end to managerialism. Once your
society is consumed by a ruling class that imagines itself as the
indispensable answer to every problem, they eventually are consumed with
the need for problems to solve. We are being destroyed by an out of
control need to manage the next crisis.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="EeMaWF7WximkkuIJK9eqtQ==cb7aedcz9PAiqn5R4Bv68XXYs/rP9+asQdSxz+wRSCGWmJKPqJwPknLYuvOwLsZwn8q"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="lH9d91aKz0D2W/SMcqVz9w==cb7TvwrjN0mLQZxaG8UaNWgvqQW79PSkcp2nCrZ5pA/mfwTiFGmr/Isb7GZjELlM+JO"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
