---
title: "Currency Wars"
date: "2023-03-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-03-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29596"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29596"
---

One of the most overused phrases in economic discussions is
“petrodollar”, especially by those inclined to doomsday theories. Right
behind it is the phrase “reserve currency”, which gets tossed around
almost as much as petrodollar. For most people, these are terms that no
longer have a practical meaning. They are words that are supposed to
mean something bad. The petrodollar as the world’s reserve currency is
the tool of the evil money men in Washington.

For starters, the petrodollar is not a real thing. It is simply a term
to express the fact that in the 1970’s the large oil producing countries
agreed to use the dollar. If you want to buy crude from the Saudis, they
accept dollars and dollar equivalents. They will accept Chinese yuan or
Vietnamese dong, but they will be converted to dollars. In the case of
Vietnam, they may discount the exchange due to administrative costs.
Otherwise, they turn the dong into dollars.

This agreement to price energy products in dollars is what makes the
dollar the world’s primary reserve currency. Everyone needs energy, so
if the energy guy will always take dollars for payment, then the world
will always keep a supply of dollars around, not just for energy
purchases, but as a reserve. In other words, the dollar’s position as
the primary reserve currency is tied to the fact that energy is priced
in dollars, so everyone has to have dollars around to buy energy.

Now, why did the Saudis agree to price everything in dollars. The main
reason is they got something for it in return. What they got is a
guarantee that the United States would protect the kingdom from threats
in the region and never side with the wrong faction among the Saudi
royal family. That last part is important. Joe Biden, as Vice
President,  sided with the faction opposing Mohammed bin Salman, the
current Crown Prince and Prime Minister of Saudi Arabia.

This is why the Saudis are now open to pricing their energy products in
Chinese yuan and maybe other currencies. Since Russian products are now
priced in rubles, the ruble has become one of the strongest and most
stable currencies in the world. Lots of countries now need to hold
rubles, because lots of countries need to buy Russian energy and
agricultural products. Lots of people need to buy Chinese manufactured
goods, so you can see the appeal there as well.

To finish the thought on the Saudis, they no longer see Washington
holding up their end of that bargain struck fifty years ago. Russia and
China, on the other hand, are willing to help in that regard. The
Chinese brokered a deal between the Saudis and Iran, which is an
enormous development. Iran backs the rebels in Yemen and the Saudis back
anti-regime forces in Iran. This new deal solves a problem for both
countries and makes the Chinese the honest broker of the region.

Further up the road, the Russians have slowly been putting together a
deal between the Turks and the Syrians to end the long bloody war in
Syria. That war is the result of regime change efforts by Washington
aimed at Syria. The Turks had been party to that scheme, but they have
changed teams and now oppose regime change. The looming settlement of
this problem, brokered by the Russians, will alter the dynamics in the
region and further push Washington out of the picture.

Taken together, the regional players are now looking to Russia and China
to help keep the peace and be the honest broker. Getting back to that
old deal between Washington and Riyad, if Washington is no longer
keeping the peace, then why only accept Washington’s money for energy
products? If the world is increasingly comfortable holding yuan, to buy
Chinese goods, and rubles, to buy Russian products, why not hold those
currencies and accept them for payment?

This is why arguments like this <a
href="https://www.revolver.news/2023/02/sorry-zerohedge-for-better-or-worse-us-dollar-remains-king-of-currencies/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">one</a> promoted by Darren Beatty at
Revolver News miss the point of what is happening with the dollar. The
writer just assumes that because things have always been this way, they
will always be this way. It is as if he thinks the dollar has magical
qualities that make it the primary reserve currency. The dollar’s value
in the world is pegged to practical things. If those practical things
decline in value or disappear, then the dollar loses its power.

What is taking shape is that the global conflict between the Global
American Empire and the emerging power centers of the world will include
a currency war. Both China and Russia clearly get this aspect of the
conflict. Both countries are working to not only make their currencies
more stable, but they are also building out the infrastructure to make
dealing in their currencies easier. China and Russia are making it
easier to do business with them in their currency.

What is happening is that as we move from the monopolar world of the
post-Cold War era to the multipolar world, we are sliding into a
currency war. As a practical matter, Washington will no longer be able
to abuse the dollar as it has recklessly done for the last thirty years.
This means Washington will not be able to export inflation in the form
of excess dollars to other countries. Those other countries will now
have choices, with regards to investment and reserves.

This does not mean the collapse of the dollar or a collapse of the
empire, at least it is not a foregone conclusion. Instead, it means
Washington must enter a period of reform similar to what followed the
Second World War and the collapse of the gold-backed dollar in the
1970’s. Currency wars are the result of changing political and economic
relationships that demand changes in money relations. The petrodollar
solved a problem at the time and its end solves a problem of this time.

Whether or not there is the talent in the ruling class to pull off the
needed reforms is the great question that looms over this currency war.
The Fed chair is obviously in over his head, but there is no one in
Washington noticing this. The current administration is staffed by
lunatics and buffoons. The Republican side is trapped in the last
century, unable to accept that the world has moved on from the 1980’s.
Prospects for reform are grim at the moment, which is what makes for a
crisis.

Even so, we are entering a period similar to the 1970’s in that we will
have periods of inflation along with declining real growth. Unreliable
money relations make for unreliable economic relations. America emerged
from the last century as the global hegemon because she won the currency
wars of the last century. The disposition of the American empire will be
defined by the new currency war and what comes out the other side of the
process will also be defined by the currency war.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Csi5quLDfEl4bXQs6BUEZg==cb7U5bCHrNTq0zjLEkRRfiZypyymIv17GqlUNslo6toxyMfDOossy0LIbd3pS9UEHEU"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Iw9qUcSZYU6925PVsV6XWQ==cb7LF8gJqCY/I/koLnl/F6biyOszyEpmHxTxC5v4QOqHA0IXv+GLZO6l/rbbUY5ncXV"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
