---
title: "A Night In The Future"
date: "2023-11-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31060"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31060"
---

I had a long day yesterday, as I had to start early in order to get my
day job items finished by noon, so I could use the rest of the day on
another project. That project took me out of the house and on the road
until late in the evening. By the time I got home and settled in it was
near bedtime. That also meant I had no time to eat along the way, so by
the time I was making the trip home I was starving. The last thing I
wanted to do was cook, so I decided to stop at a fast-food place.

The first stop was McDonald’s, which is probably the default for most
people around the world when you need food in a pinch. The food is not
terrible tasting, a bit nostalgic for most Americans, but it is always
the same. Outside of the rare exceptions, the burger from the McDonald’s
in Europe is going to taste the same as one from Asia, which will be the
same as one from Idaho. I was not hankering for a Big Mac, but I had to
eat something and that seemed like an easy option.

The drive through had about four or five cars in it when I arrived. Ten
minutes later there were a few more cars and I had not moved an inch.
Then more cars and then finally the line started to move. It was one of
those deals with two ordering lanes and one pay and get your food lane.
I question whether this is any better in terms of speed of processing,
but it does let them stack up more cars. This last bit is something that
is becoming a feature of fast food – waiting for your food.

I get to the order spot and a saucy sassy diverse female voice
flippantly asks me what I want, like I just rolled up to her crib, as
the locals put it. I asked for the number seven, which is two
cheeseburgers, fries, and a drink. McDonald’s no longer has a small, so
the small is now a medium. We had a minor debate about my demand for
medium as she kept saying large. At least that is what I thought as it
sounded like she was at a house party rather than the drive up window.

I am fifteen minutes into this by the time I creep up to the first
window, where I expected to pay nine dollars for what used to be on the
dollar menu. There is no one there, but the car in front of me is in
loud negotiations with the person handing bags of food, so I just sit
waiting. A young urban youth appears at the window and begins doing a
funky dance for some reason. He is twirling and spinning, while he
laughs and talks to someone off screen. He then leaves the scene.

Finally, I pull up to the second window, expecting to pay, but a sassy
female who sort of looked like Grimace, if he had been in the sun too
long, tells me that I need to pay funky dance guy in the previous
window. I told her there was no one there, so she left, and I think she
went to yell at him. She comes back and tells me funky dance man is back
in his window. I think she expected me to get out and walk back to pay
him, as she just stared at me, but I drove off instead.

Next up was a Wendy’s a block away. It has been a long time since I
visited with Dave as I do not have fast food very often. When I was on
the road all the time, Wendy’s was a preferred stop of the conventional
chains. Wendy’s, McDonald’s, and Burger King were my order of preference
if I had to choose. That was long ago and now I avoid this stuff for the
most part. They have added things since my last time. The big special
item was what looked like nachos between two trashcan lids.

After a ten-minute wait, a sassy diverse female demanded to know why I
was bothering them, and I told her I wanted a double burger meal. I
noted that the prices were a bit better than McDonald’s. The double
burger meal was $7.49. The big garish looking things were all over ten
bucks. I get to the window, and I am told by the man in every ad now
that I owed them $11.49. I told him the sign says $7.49 and he told me
he did not give a bleep; the meal is $11.49. I drove off.

At this point I was thinking that maybe Uncle Ted was right all along. I
am not talking about industrial society and its future. I am not even
thinking about the letter bombing campaign, at least not now. He may
have been onto something with the off grid living business, despite the
compromises on hygiene. At these moments, I can understand why so many
white guys still think Ayn Rand speaks to their soul. At least they
would never have to see another funky dance.

I have written often about what happens when you try to run a
technological society with lots of low-IQ people. Anyone who has spent
time in South America or California has glimpsed the future. Even simple
things become increasingly inefficient and then people seek to work
around the bottlenecks, which adds to the inefficiency. In South America
they have an expression called “the Latin way” which means lots of
people buzzing about looking busy, but not accomplishing much.

If you add in an aggressively hostile and entitled population to the
mix, it is hard to see how we keep the plates spinning. Fast food places
keep going mostly on inertia, as they have been a part of the culture
for generations. At some point, they either get automated or people
abandon them. In other words, in order to maintain the technological
society, it will mean masses of unemployed, aggressively hostile and
entitled people looking for something to do.

One final thought. The 1990’s action flick *Demolition Man* probably had
the near future about right when they imagined a world run by managerial
silly people attempting to control a population of troublemakers. That
is where our rulers think this is heading, except they are smart enough
to keep a lid on things. The beautiful people and their attendants will
manage a giant outdoor penal colony. Maybe they are right, but they best
not expect to get a fast-food meal late at night.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="aJ9JDMGvo906VukJMh4yJw==cb7rMjNqrXAqlrSk93pqtUjV3ufBEjvReIz26FxdrGzx2P6sO5qD/qFsXUnQBAwqRwt"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ykn/cDQk/RqUZDIQCo1oTQ==cb7+y+vzG8X7JCgxyRSbzh6krI8X+dlfUQx6MrBDRfOTKLy+k0I7hWswgG5G3gpWkU1"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
