---
title: "The Israel Problem"
date: "2023-11-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31178"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31178"
---

The founding of Israel seventy-five years ago brought with it a problem
that has never been resolved, one that is at the heart of the current
troubles. In fact, times of trouble operate as a reprieve from the hard
work of ignoring that central issue. Israeli leaders can stimulate
Western leaders into worrying about what Israel means to them, rather
than what it is. The current war in Gaza lets the American Right forget
its troubles and cheer blindly for its favorite country.

That central problem at the heart of it all is the definition of Israel
itself. The “Jewish state” is a label used by Israelis, especially those
on the Zionist side, and one that should raise some question. No one
uses the term “Irish state” or the “German state” when describing those
countries. No one would dare call Germany the home of the German people,
but Western commentators disposed to Israel comfortably say that Israel
is the home of the Jewish people.

Israel is by design, an ethnostate. It is the only self-declared and
self-defined ethnostate in the modern world. From the very beginning,
the point of Israel was to be the homeland of ethnic Jews. This is the
central problem for Israel. To be a citizen of an ethnostate requires
one to be accepted into as a member of that ethnicity. You cannot just
one day decide to be a Jew and emigrate to Israel. Unlike Western
countries, Israel is not an idea. It is a genetic threshold.

This is the problem Israel faced on day one. At its founding, the newly
minted Israelites found themselves with lots of non-Jews in their lands.
Those non-Jews could never be citizens, as that would violate the logic
of the ethnostate. Those non-Jews were not going to voluntarily evacuate
for new lands, so it meant Israel had a population of aliens in its
midst that could never be assimilated. Like a pebble in your shoe, this
non-Jewish population would be an irritant to the Jewish state.

Israel could extend most of the rights and privileges of citizenship to
this non-Jewish population in an effort to pacify them, but they could
never extend all of the rights and privileges to them. The non-Jews are
not citizens and can never be citizens, so therefore they must always be
suspect. In any two-tiered status system one class must be superior and
the other inferior and this must lead to conflict. From the start,
Israel was saddled with a hostile alien population.

Of course, the logic of the ethnostate demands that Israel do what it
must to expel this non-Jewish population from its midst. Again, the
whole point of the ethnostate is to create a homeland exclusive to your
people. The reason Israel exists is to clear and hold the land of Israel
for the Jews and only the Jews. Add in the natural hostility of the
dispossessed minority population and conflict was inevitable. By
definition, Jews can never be at peace with the minority population.

If that minority population were Mongols or Bantus, people with no
natural connection to anyone in the region, this would have been an
easily solved problem. Obviously, that was never the case, so this
inevitable and necessary conflict with the non-Jewish population has
defined Israel’s relationship with the Arab world. If Israel were, as
Ben Shapiro is fond of saying, a nation of ideas, this would not be the
case, but Israel is an ethnostate which sets it apart from all other
nations.

This would be true even if the surrounding nations were ethnostates. The
logic of the ethnostate starts with the assumption that the people of
the proposed ethnostate are superior to other people. A people cannot
demand a land of their own unless they think they deserve it. That can
only come if those people, at some level, see themselves as superior to
others, at least with regards to their claims for a homeland.
Exclusivity begins with the claim of superiority in some critical
respect.

Compounding things for Israel is the fact that their definition of a
homeland includes territories now currently occupied by others. This has
been true from the founding of Israel in 1948. Just look at old maps and
it is easy to see. Israel is the only country in the modern era to
expand its borders at the expense of its neighbors. It does this because
the logic of its existence requires it. It is why the first response to
the Hamas attack was the call to expel the people from Gaza.

This is the crux of the “Israel’s right to exist” debate. The Arabs
understand the logic of the Israeli ethnostate and what that must mean
for them. Israel’s right to exist means her right to expel non-Jews from
the lands claimed by Israel. It also means using whatever means
necessary against those defending those non-Jews. The non-Jews living in
those lands can never agree to those terms. Therefore, they can never
accept Israel’s right to exists, at least not as an ethnostate.

This also explains the ruthlessness of Israel’s response to Hamas. The
unspoken truth of the Israeli – Gaza relationship is the people in Gaza
must go away to that this land can be absorbed into greater Israel. Any
resistance to that is viewed as a threat to the very idea of Israel,
which warrants a maximum response. From the perspective of the Zionists,
genocide of the Palestinians is a proportional response to the terrorist
raid perpetrated by Gaza last month.

Obviously, this flies in the face of Western political morality, but
money can buy a lot of political blinders. That and there is a strong
Christian Zionist subculture in the United States that provides easy
cover for the political class. Washington can pretend they are catering
to public support for Israel, while cashing checks from the Israel lobby
on the condition they never mention the reality of the Israel
ethnostate. Meanwhile, Palestinian refugees prepare to emigrate to your
town.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="84s2nZPZsvfSkV3GvGXDWA==cb7oEkKTd0iqDjD/eIwCdv0vVZf4REycZ/t16k1eTtSc1nqV6/Z7SP3d4iuX4LaXwKx"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="h09ag0ZhDyZdQvOm/XGsyg==cb7lre/sbqALi22qENULzGxhxyx4D2WP7FxR4/4JpvjZwOauZuy8WO97+sTx8v12NQ0"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
