---
title: "Ukraine Budget Drama"
date: "2023-10-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30868"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30868"
---

Last week the House passed a stop-gap spending bill to keep the
government running for another forty-five days as they haggle over a
budget. As is always the case now, it was all insider baseball and
pointless theater. The people on the stage doing “Shutdown Fever” seem
to think there is an audience for this stuff, despite the fact the
audience for this material is just the Washington media. The peanut
gallery has been empty for so long they do not bother to open it
anymore.

Aside from the usual finkery and shenanigans that come from these
things, there was one thing that could prove to be interesting. Speaker
of the House McCarthy agreed to drop Ukraine funding from the bill in
order to get the votes to pass it. He promised the Democrats a separate
bill, but his promises are even less reliable than some of the famously
unreliable promises. The fact that the Democrats were willing to go
along with it suggests they were not terribly upset by this finkery.

Despite what some back-benchers have to say, none of this has to do with
the money being spent on the Ukraine project. Washington prints the
money it spends, so no one in Washington worries about spending. It is
not even clear that they care about the Ukraine project, but this is a
good issue for them to show that McCarthy is nothing more than
a gormless sock puppet for the people who really run Washington.
McCarthy made sure to prove they were correct on that score.

The fact that the Democrats went along with this without too much of a
fight and the White House has been moderate in tone is the curious
thing. So far no one has bleated anything about Russian interference,
which is has been the pattern for two years now whenever anyone
questions the official Ukraine narrative. It could be that they know the
fix is in so they can ignore this tempest in a teapot. Let the outer
party have their poo-flinging contest, as long as the money keeps
flowing.

It is also possible that the Evil Party knows the Stupid Party will come
to their rescue as this Ukraine project slips into a debacle. If the
Republicans are willing to take the lead on defunding this project, then
they get the blame for what happens in 2024. Given the way things are
going on the battlefields, it is reasonable to think that with or
without Washington money, things could be very grim by next summer.
Perhaps that is why the Democrats are letting the Republicans win this
one.

The thing is though, the neocons never give up on a project, so it is
hard to imagine them going along with this. Ukraine is not Iraq or
Afghanistan. If the money runs out, the ultras will kill Zelensky and
Ukraine collapses into civil war. The Russians then take control of the
country and Ukraine ceases to exist. Ukraine has lost half of its
population since independence and that will accelerate with a civil war.
The result will be a lightly populated border state between Russia and
the West.

This suggests that maybe there is some uncertainty in the White House
about where to go next with the Ukraine project. Money is not the real
issue. It is the dwindling supply of weapons and ammunition in the West.
The Pentagon keeps <a
href="https://apnews.com/article/ukraine-russia-war-congress-funding-13727f76561a80d2f00267a13667c33a"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">warning</a> about this issue, which no
one seems to understand. It will take years to resupply the war machine
with new weapons to replace those sent to Ukraine. The American military
industrial base cannot keep pace with the demands of Ukraine.

If NATO cannot keep sending weapons to Ukraine, then what are the
options to reduce the burn rate or stall the war until supplies can be
replenished? That is where things get tricky as all of the options rely
on the Russians going along with the scheme. If the plan is to slow the
burn, it means the end of offensive operations by the Ukraine army, but
the Russians will continue to pound them. If the plan is a cease fire,
then it means getting the Russians to go along with it.

A third option, related to the first two, is the trial balloon <a
href="https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/uk-aims-offer-military-training-inside-ukraine-minister-says-2023-09-30/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">let slip</a> by the British Minister of
Defense over the weekend. The idea is to put NATO forces into Western
Ukraine as trainers and advisors. They would be housed on bases, which
would be turned into supply depots and repair facilities. The belief is
the Russians would not blow up these facilities due to the presence of
NATO forces. NATO would have safe zones in Ukraine to build up supplies
and train a new army.

Given that the Russians have blown up a number of command centers with
Western advisors in them, this sounds nutty. On the other hand, those
facilities did not have the NATO flag over them. They were Ukrainian
military facilities disguised as things like hotels and business parks.
In Syria, Washington has had a garrison there protecting the remains of
ISIS from the Russians and Syrians. Perhaps Washington thinks the same
thing will work in Ukraine.

Taken together, this latest bit of budget drama suggests that Washington
is unsure where to go with the Ukraine project. This deal buys them a
month or so to come up with a new plan. This coincides with the onset of
the autumn rains which will force the Ukrainians back into their bunkers
and trenches. That will also slow the burn rate of weapons and
ammunition. The old narrative has finally collapsed, and they now need a
new narrative or someone on whom to pin the blame.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="6mcIrV68BwMzzfmDWKUulw==cb7HRj9iy9UmHzhjYgUOuSxwF5yRoHtMUgEOXoksiejMDlStL58S9ivk4kbYHrw1Q/+"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="IOXMumYVzfSxdR3/+q5iGA==cb75qza4fjYyojVS5MvRcTNMIBfJ9M9yN7t0ljXZhfYijKlvK2C7MxgR7PkI4Z2UMk4"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
