---
title: "The End Of Human War"
date: "2023-11-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31206"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31206"
---

Recently, Russian troops approached what they assumed to be a bunker
with a Ukrainian machine guy crew. They thought this because they took
machine gun fire from the location. They responded with mortars and
drones, but when they approached again, they came under heavy machine
gun fire. The Russians then struck the spot with thermobaric munitions,
but the Ukrainian machine guy kept firing. Eventually, they were able to
outflank the sight and destroy it.

What they found upon closer inspection was not a heavily armored machine
gun nest full of dead Ukrainians, but instead it was a robotic machine
gun. The gun itself was in a concrete bunker, but it was operated by
computer. It is unclear if it was operated remotely or if the
accompanying laptop was autonomous. There are two versions of the story
on Russian channels. Regardless, this autonomous machine gun nest is the
latest example of how cheap electronics are revolutionizing the
battlefield.

The Russians think that this autonomous machine gun was a prototype
created by a NATO country and provided to the Ukrainians for testing.
That is possible as the war in Ukraine has become a giant military
testing center. NATO contractors are using the conflict as an
opportunity to evaluate new and old technology. The Russians, of course,
have also been experimenting with new ideas. This war will be viewed in
time as the first war of the autonomous munitions era.

One reason for the revolution on the battlefield is the proliferation of
cheap electronics that can solve battlefield problems. A
five-hundred-dollar quadcopter can be rigged up to drop grenades on
enemy trenches. The user can be a girl or even a wounded soldier who
operates it from the rear. It also allows for a better understanding of
the enemy’s defensive positions and their troop strength. Instead of
artillery barrages, men in trenches now attack one another with cheap
drones.

There is another innovation that has turned up in Ukraine. Both sides
have now started to deploy small ground-based drones. They look like the
RC cars you would give to a child, except these are packed with
explosives. The Ukrainians have been driving these into Russian trenches
and then driving them near troops and supplies. The Russians, on the
other hand, are programming their ground drones to operate without an
operator and simply search out targets on their own.

This is the big leap forward that has occurred recently. The Russians
have taken the next step in remote weapons. They now have drones that
operate on their own, programmed to find a target and then attack it.
More important, they are now equipping these drones with night vision
cameras. These drones are flying around and crawling around the
battlespace at night hunting for Ukrainian equipment. Now, there is no
hiding from the robot warriors in the sky and on the ground.

What the Ukraine war has ushered in is not so much the rise of the robot
warrior but the rise of the *cheap* robot warrior. The point of these
innovations is to change the math of the battlefield by weaponizing
cheap electronics. If a two-thousand-dollar drone can take out
multimillion dollar armor and artillery, the material advantage of the
side with the armor and artillery flips on its head. All of a sudden one
side sees its cost spiraling upward in the face of cheap counter
measures.

This is another revolution on the Ukraine battlefield. The Russians have
always been the best at electronic warfare. Their defensive strategy has
always assumed they would be attacked by high-tech NATO warplanes and
missiles. In Ukraine, they have had to quickly adapt these concepts to
the very real threat of NATO cruise missiles, ATACM missiles and guided
artillery. The last two years the Russians have had to race to figure
out how to defeat these advanced weapons systems.

The result is the Russians have slowly revolutionized electronic
warfare. The vaunted Storm Shadow missile from Britain had some initial
success, penetrating Russian air defenses and hitting targets in the
rear. At some point, the Russians solved this puzzle like they solved
the HIMARS problems, and these missiles now fly into the ground soon
after they are launched. The Russians are doing this with relatively
cheap, ground-based mobile electronic warfare systems.

Notice a word that keeps turning up. The word “cheap.” This has been the
main driver of innovation on the Ukraine battlefield. NATO has outspent
the Russians close to ten-to-one in terms of weapons and technology. The
United States has given to Ukraine in two years about ten times what
Russia spends annually. In addition, the West has provided mountains of
technical and intelligence support. There is simply no way Russia could
match NATO dollar for dollar.

In fairness, the Ukrainians have faced a similar problem. Much of what
has been supplied to them has not been suited for the task. America war
planners have always assumed they would be facing an under-armed
opponent trying to defend perfectly flat ground on a clear sunny day.
That is not Ukraine. As a result, the Ukrainians have had to do like the
Russians and improvise on the cheap. The Ukrainians are probably the
second best in the world using cheap drones.

Probably the most terrifying development to date is the one just
unleashed. The Russians have reengineered the Iranian drones they have
been using so they are stealthy, autonomous, and work together. They
recently unleashed a swarm of these drones that could avoid Ukrainian
radar, seek out targets on their own and coordinate with the rest of the
drone swarm. These drones cost maybe twenty thousand a piece and can
take out expensive things like Patriot missile systems.

The West will no doubt learn and adapt to what is happening in Ukraine
and begin to create autonomous robot weapons. Artificial intelligence is
mostly hype at the moment, but automated decision making within the
narrow parameters of the battlefield is now a reality, so the day of the
killer robot is upon us. It is not going to take long before weapons
production moves from multimillion dollar tanks that are no match for a
flying killer robot to building better killer robots.

As was the case in the Great War when military technology lapped the
thinking of the men tasked with using the technology, the result in
Ukraine has been a weird form of trench warfare. The Ukrainians built
massive, fortified locations to use as strong points along the line of
contact. The Russians built complex defensive structures designed to
minimize their losses while attacking Ukrainian positions. The result
has been a slow grinding war of attrition now fought with robots.

That brings up another change brought about by technology. The NATO form
of war with big arrow offenses and combined arms warfare is now
obsolete. That was made clear in the Ukrainian offensive last summer. A
NATO trained and equipped army was sent into to bash through the Russian
lines using NATO tactics and it was instead blown to pieces in cheap,
high-tech minefields. Remotely placed and activated mines are now a
dominant feature of the modern battlefield.

What is coming out of the Ukraine war are big questions. If big
expensive items like tanks and fighting vehicles are being turned to
death traps by cheap robots, then what is the point of building them?
Similarly, if manned aircraft are made obsolete by air defense systems
and drones, what is the point of building them? What is the point of
having an aircraft carrier if aircraft are no longer viable? Trillions
of weapons systems are now becoming white elephants thanks to cheap
robots.

It is always assumed that the desire to kill our fellow man will lead us
to overcome these technological cul-de-sacs. The shield blocked the
spear, but waves of cheap arrows defeated the shield wall. The machine
gun forced men into trenches, but the tank forced the men back out of
the trenches. It is assumed that the robots will force some new counter
so that rich men and can get richer by sending poor men to their deaths,
but there has to be some end point to this process.

More important, every weapons systems has behind it an army of men who
believe in fighting war a certain way. The NATO trained Ukraine army,
that was obliterated by the Russians this summer, was the result of old
men determined to stick with the old ways of fighting a war, despite
battlefield reality. On the other hand, the defeat of weapons systems
leads to the defeat of the ideas behind them. Right now, the American
military’s notions of war are dying on the Ukrainian steppe.

It is hard to say if we have reached the end point, but the end of
manned war seems to be coming into focus. Robots will only get cheaper
and smarter. Soon, sending men to clear a building will seem as
antiquated as the cavalry charge. The skies will be full of robotic
killing machines and the ground crawling with their brothers, hooked
together by electronic communications and artificial intelligence. The
automation revolution will mean the end of war, at least for the human
participants.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="GFmGjoHfd3chG4SEvA5j/g==cb7eJUERegLchLXVMxjtn0u8UnjoSeSv9CUD+9FWtSLRPPjO4RMsD7eM8iiCDLGiCx2"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Gvpw7DXXeD8VOBt5BK/6FQ==cb7Qyfs03SI5E34Sxi0QbtTIkSzYi76AcVnF7W89Rc/eV5M14ryXJ9QxbJtQ71asQNa"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
