---
title: "Trust The Unhappiness"
date: "2023-11-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31109"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31109"
---

One of the few things most everyone can agree upon is that things are
not good, and everyone seems to be unhappy about something.
Conversations in real life or online revolve around this general sense
of unhappiness. In fact, it is fair to say that online life is just one
long airing of grievances. Often, people are primarily unhappy with the
unhappiness of some group that is using their unhappiness to make
demands on everyone else, which makes everyone unhappy.

This is not just a case of the internet skewing perception. <a
href="https://pro.morningconsult.com/trackers/public-opinion-us-state-of-affairs"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Polling</a> on the issue says that people
think we are headed down a bad road. Three quarters of Americans think
the country is on the wrong track. As you can see in that poll, the last
time a majority thought the country was on the right track was right
after the January 6 protests, suggesting the people wanted to see a
genuine insurrection. Since then dissatisfaction with the direction of
the country has climbed steadily.

The funny thing is that most people would not be surprised to learn that
record numbers of people are unhappy with the current state of affairs.
If anything, they would be stunned to learn that thirty percent are
content. How is it possible for these people to exist in the same
reality as the rest? If the split were fifty-fifty, it would make sense
as it would simply reflect the party divide. When it is seventy-thirty
it means something is going on with that thirty percent.

Putting that aside, the question that naturally arises is what is it
that is making people unhappy with the direction of the country? Again,
<a
href="https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2023/06/21/inflation-health-costs-partisan-cooperation-among-the-nations-top-problems/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">polling</a> provides a clue. The number
one issue for people is inflation. The thing is the government
<a href="https://www.bls.gov/cpi/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">tells</a> us that inflation is slowly ticking down. It
was 8.7% last year and is 3.7% now. If anything, people should be
thrilled with the direction of inflation. In fact, they should be
cheering the people who control the economy for their great work on
inflation.

There is a another small clue. According to official figures, everyone
who wants a job can have a job and the economy is humming along.
Inflation was a problem, but it is going away, so the economy is
officially in great shape. People seem to agree as unemployment is way
down the list of concerns. Not only that but consumers keep spending and
people keep buying houses. Despite the rise in mortgage rates, the
housing market remains strong all over the country.

In other words, the economy is not a particularly good measure of
happiness. Another big clue is that the one thing everyone agrees upon
is the political situation in Washington is a problem, the main problem
in politics. Large majorities of both parties think the endless drama in
Washington is a problem. It is just behind health care, which is a
serious problem with practical consequences that no one discusses.
Health insurance costs continue to rise at multiples of inflation.

The thing is though, politics in a democracy is not supposed to be a
polite and cooperative affair. It is supposed to be an ugly food fight.
For the most part, it has always been an ugly food fight. Even in times
of relative peace and tranquility the two sides torment one another. In
the Reagan years, when the quality of life was near a peak, the
Democrats tried to impeach Reagan. Under Clinton, when conservative
actually got things they wanted, they hated Bill Clinton.

Another clue here is that there are things on the list that are complete
nonsense, but they vex people to some degree. A good example is climate
change, a thing that does not exist, but it worries 64% of democrats. At
the same time, terrorism is not a real concern for most people, but
Washington cannot shut up about it. Now they are claiming Hamas is under
your bed. Last week it was racists. According to Washington, the next
terroristic bogeyman is antisemites.

Put it all together and maybe the reason that the lack of cooperation is
number three on the list, just below things that should matter to
people, is that the people never see anyone in Washington talking about
those things that matter. Not a single candidate has anything useful to
say about inflation or health care costs. They have nothing to say about
the drug problem or the growing crime problem. It is not that the
parties do not get along. It is that they agree to ignore the important
issues.

Even so, if things are good in the economy, despite some concerns over
things like health care and inflation, people should be mostly content.
Not only are people not happy, but there is also a sense of looming
disaster in the air. The reason for that is something that is not
captured in basic economic data. Things are slowly <a
href="https://www.brookings.edu/articles/why-so-many-americans-are-unhappy-about-the-economy/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">eroding</a> for the white middle-class
and that is what is causing the anxiety. A little here, a little there,
middle-class white people are getting poorer.

This coincides with two other things. Once is the browning of American,
which everyone sees everywhere they look. When the military put white
guys back in their ads recently, everyone started laughing about it. It
was assumed they did this because they are plotting a big war and will
need competent soldiers. This is one of those data points that does not
show up in economic data or polling. People sense the lights going out
on their culture and they see signs of it in the household budgets.

Of course, they are not allowed to speak of it. That is the other side
of this general unhappiness that does not turn up in polling. The ways
you are allowed to express yourself have been reduced to generic
economic questions or silly things like how the parties get along on
your television. Not only do the people on television avoid talking
about what matters to you, you are not allowed to talk about what
matters to you and this is extremely frustrating for a growing number of
people.

The way to think of it is the public square has fallen victim to the
same forces that wrecked internet forums. The point was to create a
place for vigorous debate, but certain people did not like the direction
of the debate, so they found ways to shut down the debate, which crashed
public trust in the system. It turns out you need high trust to maintain
a vigorous public debate. With trust at <a
href="https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2023/09/19/public-trust-in-government-1958-2023/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">all-time lows</a>, everyone is going to
be unhappy, not matter how good things are on paper.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:Â **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.Â  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="QnD3s6FWIosV9xQqKq300g==cb7pILuEoxQBzOeDThblNTraXuguvrpdG8Q401kqwKYJR41SWRneB/L4KPTCJg2/84r"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="IIp4HrNBzRYNDMNJ2GMNlg==cb7kfNjGstM94AWDb9M0UCX5Dgyr5UOe+xt4R3mnA3YAZMT52zsX5kyb8EFUR9tE/Rh"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
