---
title: "Divorce Court"
date: "2023-12-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31306"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31306"
---

Anyone who has been through a breakup, whether it was a personal or
professional relationship, can probably think back and recall the moment
when it felt like something changed in the relationship. Your mind went
from one mode of thinking about the other party to another way of
thinking about them. Maybe the change happened on the other side, and
you noticed it, but could not quite explain it. Eventually this
realization led to a change in how you viewed the relationship.

It is one of those weird things where you go from not thinking about
some potential future, like a divorce or a business breakup, to
contemplating it and then all of a sudden it feels like an
inevitability. People who quit their jobs always quit in their mind
before they quit the actual job. There is a period where you can tell
they are no longer committed to their work, even though they go about it
as usual. That person is going through that shift from one normal to
another normal.

Such a thing happened to the American people in the 2020 elections when
the results miraculously changed in the late hours. Millions of people
went from thinking that such a thing could never happen in America to
realizing that it was actually happening, to now accepting it as a part
of the new normal. In a way, those people went through a divorce and on
the other side was their idea of old America. They are now in an
apartment, perhaps dating new America, while old America got the house.

The same sort of thing may be happening with this election. For a long
time now, a few weirdos have been predicting a new round of shenanigans.
This time the regime’s schemers would keep Trump off the ballot, rather
than risk him overcoming the election schemes to win the general. Some
even suggested that the GOP would collude with their friends across the
aisle to get Trump jammed up legally to the point where the party would
have no choice but to disqualify him.

Your typical middle-class white person, the real core of the Trump
voting bloc, dismissed these claims, but now they watch as the system
slowly wraps itself around Trump like an anaconda. He was just removed
from the ballot in Colorado on the grounds that the judges think Hitler
is under their beds. The ruling is a blend of bourgeois hysteria and
ideological madness. There are cases like this in other states that will
surely end the same way.

Spend time on social media and the MAGA crowd is sure that the Supreme
Court will knock these cases down. After all, this is still America. The
courts removing parties and candidates is something that happens in the
third world or Russia. Like the man who still thinks things can be
patched up with his wife, these people are not ready to contemplate the
reality of the situation. Old America just moved in a black guy, while
Trump supporters keep hope alive in the apartment.

As this process rolls along and the walls close in on Trump, the people
still lighting candles for old America will slowly reach that inflexion
point where they go from one phase to the next phase. Just as they have
come to accept mass election fraud as a feature of the “system” they
will come to accept that the system is itself a grotesque mockery of
self-government. You get to vote for the regime stooge you like, as long
as the permanent ruling party approves her.

This transition in the American divorce will depend upon who the regime
decides will “win” the Republican nomination. The biggest of big liars
are trying to sell the [big
lie](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/poll-haley-trump-new-hampshire-iowa/)
that voters like Nikki Haley. You would think that these people would
have learned by now that the big lie strategy ends poorly, but they
persist. It is safe to assume that the majority of the people the GOP
expects to vote in November despise Haley, so declaring her the winner
will be interesting.

Alternatively, the party could “recruit” [Glenn
Youngkin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glenn_Youngkin), the Gomer
Pyle-like governor of Virginia who got some positive media last year
when he made pleasing noises about the rage heads peddling pornography
in the schools. He is Mitt Romney without the magic underwear problem.
The regime loves him. The neocons would get to run his foreign policy
and his aw-shucks presentation would fool enough old white people to
convince the regime it could work.

Regardless of who the party selects to be the figurehead, the people who
vote Republican, especially those Trump loyalist, will enter into that
phase where they come to terms with that which they thought was
impossible. Not only do the Democrats play fast and loose with election
laws, but the Republicans coordinate with them to rig their own
nominating process. The last holdouts of old America will suddenly have
to accept that old America is gone, and divorce is inevitable.

The phase change one experiences in a breakup happens both fast and
slow, in that it feels like a switch has been thrown, but then there is
a long slow aftermath. Once you realize the relationship cannot be
repaired, there is the process of unwinding it, which is often quite
ugly. A terrible truth of the human condition is that it feels good to
hate, especially when you need someone to blame. White America’s divorce
from old America will be as acrimonious and eventful as any divorce.

The difference here is that half the country is not going to pack up and
move to another part of town. Instead, the number of people who accept
that it is *who* is in charge is what matters, rather than *how* they
rule, will continue to grow. The amount of noticing we see online is a
great indicator of what is happening. There are things on social media
that would not have been uttered in private a decade ago. Again, another
sign that old America is never coming back.

Predicting the future is a mug’s game, but it is reasonable to think
that in the long run 2024 will be thought of as the year when national
divorce became real. An idea that kicked around the fringe suddenly
entered the mainstream. One side, the people who want to live in orderly
societies, will come to accept that there is no living with the people
on the other side. Even if it is possible, they do not want to live with
people who think this is normal. They want a divorce.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="zdg6lxaw14whrcQVECpwxw==cb74obOpQZNxx4aOvfWsfqZ0NHg9bHBeeXVR7/a48jiEReOvAMo013rlrPtYNw3H2xm"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ythwjLBFGe4abfos0ySU1Q==cb7IqeqUnAObeFg6PDYJ3XlRouGTppAA+T+VLCwdS2ICAD39sNxWc0us379Ec+CwHqv"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
