---
title: "The How And Why Of Things"
date: "2023-09-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30636"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30636"
---

Those over a certain age in the dreaded private sector will have noticed
a change in how the workplace operates with regards to managerial
relations. The days of hands-on management and management by walking
around are done. Instead, it is management from beyond the veil.
Managers, no matter how junior their rank, seek to avoid anything that
looks like confrontation with their direct reports, so they avoid as
much personal interaction as possible, preferring things like e-mail.

This is how we get things like firing people by e-mail or even text
message. The people making the decisions not only seek to avoid firing
the employee in person, but they also remove the person from the
equation entirely. Instead, it is a robot controlled by the company that
informs the digital expression of the employee. Someone in human
resources then discontinues the character from the simulation. The point
is to avoid anything the resembles human interaction.

Look a little closer and what you see in the workplace is a
technological layer forming up between management and the staff. The
people in positions with impressive titles fear anything resembling
pushback so what is forming up between them is a technological and
organizational callus. It shields both sides from the human necessity of
management and staff interaction, replacing it with a technological
interface that allows both sides to interact with that interface.

When Rachel from the training department is putting together the latest
sermon on diversity, she will never have to stand in front of a room
full of humans and deliver the sermon and see the faces of the people
receiving it. She uses a piece of software her company purchased for
qualitatively managing the diversity initiative. One combination of
commands produces reports for management. Another result is some black
guy with an X in his name running a workshop in the breakroom.

One result of this is that the presumed common morality is baked into a
system, often a software system, rather than the heads and hearts of
people. The latest lecture about the importance of safety is not based
on collective agreement but the dashboards from the safety software and
the posters that decorate the breakroom. No one asks why we need to make
sure our coworkers feel safe from heteronormative body shaming as there
is no one to ask. The claim comes from the ether.

This is not just a private sector phenomenon. This disease of the
impersonal has infected all parts of the managerial system. Politicians
used to have townhall meetings with their constituents where they would
field questions. If they bother doing this at all these days, it is a
rigged room with plants asking fake questions. Instead, politicians have
someone interact with their voters through social media. Their Twitter
is an avatar of a person who is now just an avatar.

The media has been sucked into this as well. On the one hand, no one in
the media dares ask a party member a tough question. That could put the
media person in bad odor with the party. Of course, the party member is
not interested in confrontation either, so she avoids anyone who might
ask tough questions. The exception is those on the outs with the party,
but even there the fear of confrontation is keeping all but the dullest
media hacks from interacting with people like Trump.

Another driver of this depersonalization of the managerial class is the
feminization that we see throughout society. Males expect confrontation,
then some sort of agreement with a clear winner, typically the man in
charge. Women prefer consensus, especially if it facilitates endless
gossip and intrigue. This is why homosexual males decorate the upper
reaches of the management class. They love drama. Combined with male
intellect, they thrive in the new girl powered world.

Logically, you cannot have consensus if people are disagreeing with one
another so the goal is to avoid situations where people can disagree.
This is the benefit of that technological callus between management and
staff. There can be no disagreement because the morality of every
situation has been decided by the system. If you are unhappy with the
result you need to reconcile yourself with the system, not take it up
with your boss, who would prefer to never see you.

In a large company, the result is a vast disconnect between what the
people in charge think about the company and what the staff thinks about
the company. A very modern phenomenon is management asking for systems
that can help them monitor the “wellness” of their staff as they use
other software systems. Imagine the accounting system doing a wellness
check before you can enter invoices. This is only possible in a world
stripped of anything resembling humanity.

At scale, you end up with a culture that looks like what space aliens
imagine culture is like among the humans they detected with their
scanners. How is it possible that a real human created an account on
Twitter called “safety” from which they
<a href="https://twitter.com/Safety/status/1696566031177707766"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> about the magical and imaginary
world of online safety? What is an “open, accurate, and safe political
discourse”? The answer is it is approved content transmitted and
enforced through the interface of technology.

That is the final driver of the depersonalization process. Marx observed
that once the moral questions are resolved, politics no longer exist.
The trouble is the only way to settle the moral questions is through
debate and conflict. By removing normal human interaction, you remove
all avenues of debate and conflict. That leaves management to slip their
moral claims into the systems they now use to run the world. Again, who
can argue with the software that controls your life?

In this way, the censorship we are seeing is part of a larger process of
baking managerial morality into the system. The people on the “safety”
committee are not banning you personally from the platform. They are
just following the rules of the system and you broke the rules. It is
all right there in the terms of service, which change as frequently as
the constitution on Manor Farm. If you think there was an error, click
the link in your suspension notice and fill out an appeal.

The problem, something you see in the dreaded private sector, is that
someone has to be in charge and the rules have to make sense. The reason
the “good boss” spends time talking with staff is he wants to make sure
the rules make sense, but also make sure the rules make sense. The
former is about the staff understanding why the rules exist and the
latter is about the rules coordinating the combined efforts of the staff
toward the goals of the company.

In a world where everyone deals with every through the interface, this
is not only impossible, but it would undermine the system. Software and
management systems can never be viewed as moral agents. No matter how
high management stacks these things between themselves and their direct
reports, they will still hear those questions that are integral to human
organization. Why are we doing this? Who says we have to do what we are
doing this way? Who made this decision?

The how and the why are the only things that matter in human
organization, with the former resting on the answer to the latter.
Managerialism seeks to elide this reality by slipping the why into the
how via process. The process becomes an interface to prevent anyone from
asking someone in charge the why questions. That could lead to the
scariest question of all, the “who decided this” question. Managerialism
is all about avoiding the answer to that question.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="dagXglreMY/RsjJHZnKtrw==cb7RZwZzN5pQMyHRZKiYNp8VgXbcy2XbMiiEIJC/3KsOVSMGiTlEL9SzpyOcadBqnxU"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="fdKK4KHuhI3u/rXr1/MlcQ==cb7LHH/0HRMfENfExICwjiL0KTZFdmJ6Xd8nCsdeWbrFsqbVWUIcu7ShKeqfsPrpolR"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
