---
title: "Religious Equity"
date: "2023-06-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-06-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Race
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30168"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30168"
---

Recently the Supreme Court struck down an Alabama redistricting plan on
the grounds that it needed one more black district. The majority claimed
that the Voting Rights Act demands racial proportionality in
congressional districting, even though it says no such thing and if it
did, it would be unconstitutional. The courts follow the news, and these
judges understand what happens when you question racial orthodoxy, so
they invented a new reason to conform with orthodoxy.

While the trend toward threatening judges, as is common in other corrupt
societies, is an interesting topic, what matters here is the
proportionality claim. One of the ideological shadows over this age is
an old claim by the post-Mark culturalists, or what used to be called
the New Left, is this idea that equity demands proportionality. Equity
is the claim that a just society requires all people to equally
participate and equally benefit from the stuff that come from society.

Back in the old days when left-wing meant high taxes on rich people,
racial antagonists would argue that representation should be by race and
sex. Congress should be composed along racial and sexual lines. If
thirteen percent of America is black, then there should be fifty-seven
blacks in Congress. Since roughly half the adult population is female,
half of Congress should be female. This idea never got far, but the
concept is embedded in the calls for equity.

At this point it is common to note that it makes no sense to hurl men
into the void for noticing race while also demanding racial filters be
applied to all outcomes. If it is true that black people know things
about blackness that only black people can know and that requires that
they be proportionally represented in all matters to ensure they get
what they deserve, then race is not just real, but it is the only
reality. The same can be said of sex, which gets the same treatment.

The inherent stupidity of the new religion is the main appeal.
Ingratitude and grievance are functions of intelligence. The smarter you
are, the less likely you are to think the world is unfair or that you
are owed more than you deserve. Stupid people prefer to think their
condition is the fault of others. The more magical and mysterious the
cause, the more appealing it is to the aggrieved. Disproving something
nutty like institutional racism is like disproving paranormal activity
or astrology.

Putting that aside, the proportionality idea is not without some merit.
Politics is about normative trade-offs. There is no empirically correct
tax code, for example. Taxes are collected to pay for government. Who
pays those taxes is a moral decision. The same is true for all public
policy. The right policy is not something that can be established by the
scientific method. It is what the rich people who control government
think is the right policy or what they hope will keep the peasants
docile.

With that in mind, if you are going to have representative government,
then the legislative bodies should reflect the moral diversity of the
people. The easiest way to sort people in terms of moral outlook is by
their religious affiliation. Jews will have a different moral code than
Muslims or Buddhists, for example. While all religions share moral
claims, they have important differences. If the differences were
superficial, there would be no need for separate religions.

<a
href="https://www.pewresearch.org/religion/wp-content/uploads/sites/7/2022/12/PF_2023.01.03_congress_LIST.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here</a> is a recent list of congressmen
and senators by religion. Presumably, this is based on what the person
says about his religious identity. Many no doubt lie. For example, Joe
Biden claims to be a Catholic, but he actively promotes things that are
specifically against Catholic dogma. Is Hank Johnson a Buddhist? He is
the guy who thinks Guam might flip over if too many people stand on one
side. Moron is not a religion, but it could probably describe many
members of Congress.

With that said, the most represented faith in Congress is Catholicism.
They make up 28% of the elected officials. Catholics are 21% of the
population, so the Vatican is significantly overrepresented in
Washington politics. The next group is listed as “Protestant
unspecified” at 20%, which probably means the person grew up in a
secular home with a Protestant history. If you add this group to those
who have no religious identity, this cohort of American is
well-represented.

The group not getting equitable treatment, using the language of the new
religion, is the largest religious identity in America. Protestants are
roughly 45% of the American population but only 35% of Congress. Again,
many of the people calling themselves Episcopalian or Presbyterian are
faking it like we see with Catholics. What are the odds that Senator
Chris Van Hollen can name a single Episcopal church in his state, much
less the last time he went to mass?

This raises another consideration. About 30% of Americans attend
services regularly, which is usually defined as at least once a month.
About a third of Americans attend services for events like weddings,
funerals, and holidays. It is fair to assume that a good portion of that
group would attend regularly if the churches had not succumbed to the
modern disease. Why go to church when you can hear a similar sermon
during half time of the football game?

Now, how many elected officials regularly attend church services? How
many of them even believe in God? There is no data on this, but it is a
good guess that only a small portion of elected officials are genuinely
religious. Instead, their views on religion and morality reflect the
people who bankroll their campaigns and control the important parts of
the managerial state. If you want to have a good career in Washington,
you best keep your religious views to yourself.

If you want to know why so-called conservatives fall for every left-wing
social fad, there is the answer. These people are experts at talking
about religion and morality, but they exist in a world that has a
different moral order and a radically different moral code from the
people over whom they rule. Congressman X instinctively puts a sodomy
flag on his Twitter profile, because that is what everyone else he knows
is doing. The fact that he claims to be a Baptist is not in the front of
his mind.

The point of all this is that one major cause of the current crisis of
trust is that the ruling class of America has a different and district
moral code. This shows up in the normative decisions made by Congress
and elected officials. If Congress truly reflected the morality of the
people, much of what drives Americans crazy about national politics
would not exist, much less be the center of debate. Our politics would
reflect our shared moral code and our shared moral priorities.

One of the ironies of this age is the people hopping up and down about
equity also rail against religion and religious people. Yet the most
likely way of reaching some sort of equitable result would start with
equity in Congress. If the house and Senate truly reflected the moral
sensibilities of the people, many of the issue at the heart of the
social justice demand would be resolved. Religious equity in Washington
would go a long way toward creating a just society.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="NN5J5tICdYRnUBnFzJ74ew==cb7KqiDJ0sQdI7y6804tTiSiWMaRFckCccaVZAv/0uAk6rorDMvGUzIFVEb4jG+PCQ/"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ydhvds00JMDJWuanTef3RA==cb7d/i1STKw2104gPbhQoyQLk++CcneJw2iN0RubN6P9DxeXwQ3b5j0OJvBtTz+z4Z1"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
