---
title: "The Seeds Of Ruin"
date: "2023-04-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-04-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29662"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29662"
---

The expression, “you learn more from your failures than from your
successes” is largely true on the individual level, with some obvious
exceptions. If you are a bomb disposal man or you pack your own
parachute, the lesson you learn from your failure is short lived, but
for most other things the expression holds. What we think of as wisdom
is mostly just experience, which is a nice way of saying mistakes.
Moreover, success often leads to future error due to learning the wrong
lesson.

This holds for groups of people. Sports teams that have a run of luck
often fall into bad habits and then experience a collapse. They confused
luck for talent. On the other hand, the young team that struggled
through losses, learning hard lessons along the way, often comes out the
other side as a good team. They made all the mistakes necessary to be
terrible, and therefore learned the lessons required to win, so they
emerged from the experience equipped to win.

What we think of Judaism is the product of failure. Jews are currently
celebrating Passover, commemorating a foundational event for their
people, but the Jews who experienced the flight from Egypt were nothing
like modern Jews. The Roman conquest of the Levant and the destruction
of the Temple changed Judaism. The great failure of the old religion
ways gave birth to a new form of Judaism, which allowed Jews to be Jews
no matter where they found themselves.

It is not that failure, especially catastrophic failure, is a good
thing. No one should strive to fail. It is that failure strips old
habits of their legitimacy. “We have always done it this way” is
powerful magic when things are going well. When things are going poorly,
everything gets questioned. The process of reexamination of old habits
and old beliefs is what often leads to reform and even revolution. That
new form of Judaism was revolutionary and remains so to this day.

Something similar happened, although far less catastrophic, when the
founding generation was crafting a new political order. The
slave-holding states won the hard fights over the new constitution.
These practical compromises contradicted the covenantalism at the core
of Yankee New England. The initial failures led to a revolution in their
outlook, which eventually led to abolitionism and the war on the
southern states to end the institution of slavery.

One can never know, but you can make the case that the worst thing to
happen to the South was their success in preserving slavery at the
founding. If the slave owning states had been forced to slowly phase out
the practice, the revolutionary fever to their north could not have so
easily spread. Maybe the fanatics would have found a new cause, but if
they did not have slavery as a rallying point, it would have been much
harder for them to instigate a crusade against the South.

Of course, the corollary here is that winning is often a curse. The
great triumph over their old enemies in the Civil War gave the fanatics
confirmation. This fueled the spread west, turning America into a
continental empire. Then they turned their eyes south to become the
hegemon in the Western hemisphere. Finally, in the 20th century, they
conquered the known world in the Second World War. The saviors of the
world had literally saved the world from fascism.

There is where our present crisis started. Decades of economic
immigration left the ruling class with a population of strangers.
Organizing this mass of strangers into a unified force to conquer the
world required something new and what they landed on was creedalism, the
idea that American is a set of ideas, rather than a people defined by
blood and history. All those strangers could be American and fight for
what it means to be American, if they just accepted the words on the
paper.

It was more complicated than that, but it was a useful expedient. It
gave everyone a reason to support the cause, especially the newcomers.
It also promised upward mobility to those newcomers. After all, if being
an American simply meant espousing and supporting the creed, there is no
reason why anyone could not rise as high as their talents will take
them. Creedalism made the concept of the American dream accessible to
anyone and everyone, as long as they believed it.

The trouble, of course, is it seemed to work. The great victory over
fascism in the Second World War was a transformative event for America.
It not only made America a global empire, it confirmed that America was
a different sort of country. It was not just a place where people lived,
but the city on the hill. The people committed to ideas conquered the
people committed to blood and soil. This was proof that the American
creed was a righteous faith open to all people.

This useful expedient was quickly transformed into a social poison by
the subversives and profiteers that follow them from catastrophe to
catastrophe. Every effort to defend the nation from the caustic effects
of creedalism was met with lectures by the high priests of the faith,
often undisguisable from the profiteers, accusing the defenders of the
nation of being un-American. The result is the atomized, deracinated
society of strangers we see today.

It is tempting to focus on the present outrages and ignore the soil in
which they have grown, but the seeds were planted by the success in the
war. Walter Cook, founding director of the Institute of Fine Arts at New
York University, famously said, “Hitler is my best friend; he shakes the
tree and I collect the apples.” Sibyl Moholy-Nagy famously replied, “In
the best of Satanic traditions some of this fruit was poisoned, although
it looked at first sight as pure and wholesome as a newborn concept.”¹

The present insanity is only possible in a society in which it is easy
to focus the hatred of one group of people on a different group of
people in close proximity. It turns out that diversity plus proximity is
wokeness. This was made possible by inviting the world and their ideas
into the country. This was only possible when being an American was
reduced to being nothing more than repeating some words on a paper.
America’s great success came with a suicide pact called creedalism.

That is the hidden truth of that expression at the start. You learn more
from your failures than from your successes because the pain of failure
endures, while the euphoria of success fades. The present failure normal
people are experiencing will stick around long after this generation is
gone. The great failure of the American experiment with creedalism will
inform those who build whatever comes next. Today’s agony will be
tomorrow’s lesson for the next generation.

¹https://placesjournal.org/article/future-archive-hitlers-revenge/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ZgTYuWsW1ULhK+Ea9rbhpA==cb7kmz0RjFMM8I5nFJhVZoJoNPmwJWCLb/FCQQnQhgEe+is2M4F1Ci8x21XJi0DQwXH"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="UFBlbqRnAnVARoh0lUAnKw==cb777U4vcjeV6xQBKC1l0DedGg0smGKGMvJAwhlBjZXEVJKl7rvQPcOwNIvWNH+M8hB"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
