---
title: "The Cult Of Nick"
date: "2023-08-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-08-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30519"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30519"
---

A few years ago, the fans of Nick Fuentes were no different from the
fans of any of the other internet personalities that inhabit the video
space. They liked his work and felt like they knew enough about him to
like him personally. This is the unique aspect of video compared to
audio and the written word. There is always a stronger emotional
connection with the audience in the video format. Otherwise, Nick
Fuentes was just another popular YouTube guy.

Since then, much has changed. Fuentes has inserted himself into the
Trump story in ways that other political entertainers have avoided. He
participated in the “Stop the Steal” rallies after the 2020 election. He
was at the infamous J6 rally. He was by far the most enthusiastic
supporter of Trump during that process. He also transformed from a
commentator to something of a guru for the Zoomers. He was not just a
YouTuber, but the cult leader of a youth political movement.

That is the way to think of the Fuentes operation now. His group is a
cult of personality driven by people who believe in Nick Fuentes. He is
not an entertainer or a political commentator, but the spiritual head of
a movement. It is not just his followers who speak in these terms but
Fuentes himself. He regularly reminds his followers that one day soon
they will take over the world and remake it in their image. They are the
change they have been waiting for, to quote a past cult leader.

In the modern age, the word “cult” conjures images of a lunatic leading
a collection of naïve or desperate people. The words “UFO” and “suicide”
tend to be attached to the word “cult” when describing an undesirable
group of people. Neocons, for example, are often compared to a suicide
cult. Then you have the image of the cult leader who is always a
charlatan or crackpot preying on fools. The cult leader is never someone
doing good things or operating from good intentions.

This was not always the case. The ancient world had many cults, and no
one thought it strange for someone to be in a cult. Often, a cult would
organize around a place where something special happened. Then you had
mystery cults like the Eleusinian Mysteries, which dated back to the
Greek Dark Ages. The Norse had cults that often revolved around personal
or household gods. Of course, the ancients had many cults of personality
centered on a charismatic figure.

That is how we need to think about the Fuentes phenomenon and other
cults of personality that we are seeing. The ancient Greeks did not have
political parties as we think of them, but personality cults that played
a similar role. In the Roman Republic, politics revolved around strong
popular figures. The more a society embraces the democracy idea, the
more inclined they are to look to individuals who can lead the people in
the direction they want to go.

Look back at American politics and you see the trend. Reagan was a
highly charismatic figure whose support was mostly personal. Clinton was
another highly charismatic guy whose support was entirely personal. He
was compared to the acronym figures of progressive lore, as if he was
the return of the king. Obama was obviously black Jesus for
progressives. He never said anything of substance, but his followers
would swoon when he spoke. Trump, of course, is a similar figure for his
followers.

This is where we pick back up on the Fuentes story. To his followers, he
is the young Trump or maybe the heir to Trump. While Fuentes never says
this explicitly, his presentation suggests he understands the connection
being made. He often talks about Trump as an imperfect messenger, which
naturally implies that Fuentes is the new and improved version who can
see the flaws, but still support the man. The cult of Nick is sure he
will be president one day.

This may seem a bit weird, but it is important to keep in mind that this
generation thinks about things wholly in the context of the internet.
Clout is the currency of this world and that comes in the form of
audience. That audience does not have to be in favor to count for clout
points. You can have clout when lots of people oppose you. This is why
Nick claims to be the most censored man on the internet. What he is
saying is that he is the most important man on the internet and thus the
world.

Because of our interconnectedness, the cult-like aspects of the Nick
Fuentes movement jump out when you interact with it. For starters, all
of his fans say the same things about why they like Fuentes. He has
clout, of course. He also gets the message out to the biggest audience.
He is the most successful leader in the history of “the movement” which
is never explained. To what end is never addressed. What matters is that
Nick Fuentes is famous, so he has clout.

That is where you see this as a cult of personality. Question the
members and you will find that they have no agenda beyond supporting
Nick. Press further and they do not know Nick’s agenda or even think
about it. They trust Nick. The closest you will get is he wants to
restore America to a white Christian nation. By Christian they mean
Catholic, only because Nick Fuentes says he is a Catholic. He also wants
to remove the Jews from power, even though he has Jews in his movement.

The Jewish aspect is a big tell, as far as whether this is a cult. Go to
a Fuentes event and you will find Jewish supporters. The most committed
Fuentes followers will welcome them without much thought. Key figures in
the Fuentes operation are Jewish, despite Fuentes railing about Jews
every day. This weird contradiction is the sort of test of faith you
always see in a cult of personality. The truest believers easily accept
the obvious contradictions and still love their leader.

Similar to the Jewish issue is the political issue. When pressed, the
followers of Nick will say they are the only force opposing the system.
In order to overthrow the system, they plan to take over the system
through conventional means like elections or participation in mass
media. In other words, they oppose the system by supporting it and they
will overthrow the system by taking it over and using it to impose their
vague version of a white Catholic democracy.

This is where things get interesting. If you manage to pin down one of
the more intelligent members on these contradictions, they shift gears
and tell you why it is important to not have a coherent agenda. They
will say that ideology is the enemy because it is Jewish or liberal or
some other scare word. This comes from Nick Fuentes who says this
whenever he is pressed on specifics. In other words, the followers
closely mimic their leader to avoid thinking about it.

In fairness, there is nothing going on here to raise alarm. This is not
a suicide cult or terrorist cell headed for disaster. Nick Fuentes is
not Jim Jones. Most of the followers are primarily drawn to the
irreverence of Fuentes and the movement. If you press hard enough, the
most committed will confess that much of what they are doing is sort of
a performative lampooning of society. The Cult of Nick is bathos and
pathos to create an emotional experience that is the only real point.

This explains the appeal, despite the many missteps of Fuentes. The
young males attracted to this are from a common demographic. They are
from white middle-class suburbs outside the South. Most were raised by
women, and their play was exclusively online in the form of gaming. The
intensity of the “groyper movement” provides something real compared to
the synthetic reality of their upbringing. It also is largely free of
women, which makes sense in this context.

Ironically, it also has the intense youth culture aspect that drove the
1960’s counterculture youth movements. The Boomers did not trust anyone
over thirty and the Zoomers agreed with them. This is not Peter Pan
syndrome, but a sense that their unhappiness is due to the failings of
adults. The Boomers blamed the adults for squandering the promise of
America on war and money making. The Zoomers blame the Boomers for doing
the same thing.

That brings us to where this is headed. It has been assumed that Fuentes
will follow the same arc as other e-celebrities. In time he would do
things to ruin his clout and end up on the bench with people like
Richard Spencer. That has not been the case. His wacky adventures with
the mentally unstable Kanye West only made him more popular with his
young fans. It got him attention, so it got him clout. In this regard,
Fuentes is a unique figure in that all publicity is good publicity.

The challenge for this cult is time. Fuentes is twenty-four and his
typical follower is in his late teens and early twenties. In five years,
Fuentes is no longer a kid. His core followers will be entering the work
world. There will be new young guys hunting clout with Generation Alpha,
perhaps using Fuentes as a foil. In other words, the Cult of Nick will
need to transition from the Neverland of internet culture to the hard
reality of the material world that has all of those nasty adults.

This assumes the material world remains the controlling factor. Just as
the Zoomers are an inflection point in history, the Cult of Nick could
be an inflection point in how politics are conducted in an internet
democracy. Fuentes may feel like a stranger in a strange land to those
anchored in the analog world, but he could be the leading edge of the
digital age that will sweep away the analog age of politics. Perhaps the
Fosterite Cult of Nick becomes the Church of All Worlds.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="UTs2QCfbcBbkrbhadIdfNg==cb7rBpvQG6MMmVbhm/4lf/SClH2QyoB+dqAJ0ZycXjiQ3IFGQMWd1dXojqxRh/+K/ry"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="jLXGkiRX3xtChZwb56DlWg==cb7XASweEMr5B0kBXsK1HklIUadYClpjwh1KDQC0B4ogB7u5RTCR5Ior0wc2lkACH0l"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
