---
title: "Obituary Thinking"
date: "2023-04-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-04-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29749"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29749"
---

Elite over production is a concept invented by Peter Turchin, a Russian
born academic, which argues that social unrest is often caused by too
many potential elite members for the number of elite positions. These
extra potential elites are under-employed and thus gravitate to things
like radical politics. Over time, these excess elites chip away at the
social order and eventually the order begins to falter. He claims that
crises throughout history were due to the overproduction of elites.

It is an elegant theory, in that it is simple, not necessarily
beautiful. It also seems to explain the present crisis in the West. Look
around at any large corporation or government facility and you will see
lots of credentials. Look around the local coffee shop and you can see
many of the same credentials. America has far too many people with
advanced degrees than it needs. Look around at radical politics and it
seems to confirm that too many elites leads to trouble.

There are several counter arguments to this claim. The first is that our
elite appears to be getting dumber. We assume that intelligence
correlates with social status and in a healthy society it should, but we
have a lot of insanely stupid people in positions of authority and
influence. If the insane and stupid are occupying elite positions, then
it suggests the excess elites are even more insane and stupid. A few
hours on social media seems to confirm this observation.

This conforms with the observation that humans are getting dumber, and
the process may be accelerating. Again, anecdotes abound. Elon Musk, the
world’s richest man, is struggling to get a rocket to the moon, a feat
accomplished by men half a century ago using materials from their
garage. The Concorde achieved supersonic speeds as a passenger-carrying
plane last century. We now struggle to keep the slow airplanes in the
air and from smashing into one another.

Another counter to the Turchin theory is that what he terms an
overproduction of elites is what fuels the dynamism of the West. Those
extra elites may go off into radical politics, but they also go off to
invent new stuff. The computer revolution was driven in large by people
excluded from the elite. As the elite becomes more exclusive, the smart
and capable form their own elite outside the system. In time, they are
able to challenge the old elite and even replace it.

Then there is the issue of how one defines elite. Elizabeth Warren, for
example, is as dumb as a goldfish, but she is in the Senate, which
classifies her as elite. John Fetterman, a man unable to communicate
with his fellow humans, was just released from a lunatic asylum into the
Senate. Even before his trip to the asylum, he had never held a job, but
he qualifies as an elite. When your elite contains brain damaged
lunatics you have to rethink how you define elite.

As Ed Dutton has shown, many of the people who circulate inside and just
outside our elites are people with deleterious genetic mutations. In
lean times, these people are excluded from elite society, often excluded
from society as a whole, because they pose a risk to the fragile order.
In times of plenty, they are tolerated and therefore proliferate over
time until they reach critical mass. These people spend their days on
social media bombarding the normals with their madness.

Of course, all of these observations can be right. We may be producing
too many potential elite members, while at the same time the elite
becomes increasingly deranged, owing to the proliferation of spiteful
mutants. Selection shifts from the willingness and ability to compete
with the best to the willingness and ability to navigate a world
populated with spiteful mutants. This would explain why it feels like
our elites have gone mad all of a sudden.

Another factor is the commodification of elite perception. A century
ago, it was rare to encounter someone with an advanced degree. Most
Americans could live their life never having met a college professor.
College degrees were rare, and many people never finished high school.
Today, everyone is expected to finish high school and then attend
college. Even advanced degrees are becoming common. Most college sports
coaches now have a graduate degree.

In other words, a marker for elite status has been turned into a
commodity that has value only to the diploma mills selling them. This is
obvious when you look into the people promoting social causes. You see
lots of credentialed lunatics. By lowering the barrier of entry to
college, the system has been flooded with the mentally unstable, who
ultimately fall into areas that promise to provide clarity and
structure. Political causes are a form of self-medication only found on
campus.

Then you have the fact that the material difference between most people
who see themselves as the elite and the rest of society is quite small.
A century ago, a Senator was a rich person who lived a life that was
clearly different from the average person, not just materially by
socially. Rich people went on holiday and had hobbies, while the average
person had to work and spent what little time off they had doing
inexpensive local things with friends and family.

Today, people on welfare go on vacation. If you are Elizabeth Warren, it
must seem outrageous that Spirit Airlines exists at all. She is a member
of the world’s most exclusive political club and she spends time every
day begging for money, often having to fly commercial to do it. The
psychological impact of this narrow gap in standards of living between
the elites and the rest leads to some of the craziness. They have to
have some way to signal their elite status.

This commodification of elite markers, things like education and display
items, is made possible by the credit economy. The proliferation of
highly credential public nuisances is only possible because of the
student loan system. Remove this from the equation and half of the
colleges go bankrupt in a month. The surviving colleges contract
dramatically in order to remain solvent. The college diploma quickly
goes back to being a symbol of privilege or unusual individual talent
and commitment.

The same can be said for the material side of things. The reason that
the middle-manager and his wife can live in a McMansion in a new suburb
is the flow of cheap money into the housing markets. When every man can
live like a king, every man begins to see himself as a king. Before long
he is taking hormones and demanding you call him a queen. This is where
elite over production comes back into focus. Cheap money produces an
excess of people who think they are special.

All of these explanations for the present madness are interesting and
they seem to hold up under scrutiny. The cafeteria of social decline
offers something for everyone, so you can indulge yourself according to
your inclination. In the end, it may be that Spengler was right to think
of civilization as an organism. It has a life cycle. The American empire
has reached its old age and therefore is riddled with many of the
maladies that eventually kill off a civilization.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="RL1VCZBGqVAeGU3KC7Xm0g==cb7ip9Xv+mp6Nd8lwBvnr3Vx/Ze4LJBUK+Eyk5AmZlsXEaNlyTAWB3iACVXS9Dub5yZ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="beygIIl1vV+HFBtdIaDLtA==cb7g4HO9EHaTY4RpHgpliG3QCxpR0FaN8kmbDVM8P4aA48bRzLB6hItLy7EMzLdKy0z"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
