---
title: "Diet And Superstition"
date: "2023-08-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-08-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30454"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30454"
---

A paradox of the modern age is that the average person in the West knows
more about the natural world than the most learned man of prior eras,
but people remain as superstitious and irrational as ever. This is true
even in the human sciences, where doctors continue to tell patients that
they should make sure to eat plenty of vegetables and avoid fatty foods.
Much of what people experience as medicine is the same old
oogily-boogily that has been with us since forever.

The carnivore diet is the latest bit of nonsense to make the rounds.
Search the topic on YouTube and your recommendations will suddenly be
packed with videos of men wearing lab coats or standing in front of dry
erase boards, explaining how this diet is based on the science of
cavemen. They claim that humans are made to eat meat, not bread or
vegetables, so we should only eat meat. This will cure the things that
ail you in the modern age, like obesity and unhappiness.

This is pure nonsense. Modern humans are the product of a long process
that continues to this day. That process is called evolution. The
ancestors of modern humans survived on what they could find. We know
that species that can survive on a varied diet are more adaptive than
species hooked on a narrow diet. If you can eat anything, you can live
anywhere. If you can only eat bamboo shoots, then the only place you can
live is in a Chinese zoo.

Modern humans inherited this ability to eat just about anything, which
is why modern humans were able to spread across the globe. Anyone who
says humans were designed to eat meat is either ignorant or crazy.
Humans certainly adapted to the food that was available, but the reason
they could do this is our ancestors were able to eat just about
anything. In some areas, humans lived primarily on fish, because there
was a reliable supply of fish for them to eat year-round.

Adaptation is important. Gregory Cochran and Henry Harpending argued in
their book, *The 10,000 Year Explosion*, that as humans settled down and
learned to cultivate animals and plants, adaptation accelerated. As
grains became a bigger part of the diet, people adapted to the new food
and lifestyle. If our caveman ancestors were meat eaters, it does not
matter because our direct ancestors evolved to be omnivores living
mostly on grains they made into bread and beer.

Now, this does not mean you cannot lose weight or lower your glucose
levels by changing your diet. People in the modern age get fat for the
same reason people got fat in the Middle Ages. They consume more
calories than they need to perform their work, so some of the excess is
stored as fat. That is another useful adaptation of humans that gets
treated like magic. Storing fat is what helps us be so adaptive.
Carrying emergency food around under our skin is a huge advantage.

This is why being fat was looked upon as a sign of success. Look at old
photos of rich people and they are often quite fat. Women dressed in a
way that made them look plump, even if they were slender. Fat people had
extra food and time to eat it, which meant they were prosperous. Skinny
people spent their days laboring thus burning lots of calories, but they
had only the food they needed to keep laboring. In this age, Indians
still regard tubbiness as a sign of prosperity.

Modern Americans, of course, view fat people as moral failures because
they cannot control themselves at chow time. Chris Christie is an object
of scorn mostly because he is a big fat slob. He even had his mouth
stapled shut in an effort to lose weight and give his family some peace
and quiet. Somehow, he managed to get around it and he remains a big fat
noisy slob. In this age, the only fat people we like are the fat comics
who make fun of their own fatness.

This probably explains the superstition around diets. The sales pitch of
the carnivore diet is no different from what preachers during the Great
Awakening were selling or social reformers of this age are selling. The
subtext is always the same. We have strayed from the proper path, and we
must return to it or else. In the case of diet, it means returning to
some imagined time when we ate a different way. In the case of social
reforms, it is getting back to the righteous path.

It is not just fad diets where we see superstitions about food. Many
YouTube videos are sponsored by companies selling some sort
<a href="https://drinkag1.com/en" rel="noopener" target="_blank">goo in
a jug</a> that is supposed to give you energy and vitality. “Hey, you
are a busy and important person, who just happens to be laying on the
couch watching YouTube videos. You don’t have time to have a proper
meal, so have a jug of green slime instead. It will not only give you
the electrolytes plants crave, but it will also give you energy to watch
more videos.”

These companies selling meal replacement and ready-to-cook meals
delivered to your door are not really selling food. These companies are
selling lifestyles. They are no different from the people selling
perfume or ripped blue jeans. The people selling gourmet food kits are
promising you a lifestyle if you adorn yourself with the accoutrements
of the people who supposedly live that life. Fashion is a cargo cult and
food fashion is not an exception.

Of course, the root here is happiness. The leisure classes in ancient
Egypt had codes of conduct that were designed to give meaning and
purpose to life. Cicero and Ovid wrote guides on how to live happy
lives. People in comfortable lives have time to worry about abstract
things, so there are people there to supply them with satisfying answers
to the vexing questions of existence. Idle hands do the Devil’s work and
the buying and selling of self-help books keeps those idle hands busy.

Getting back to food superstitions, not all of it is nonsense. If you
are a big fat slob like Chris Christie, the carnivore diet will result
in weight loss. It may put cows on the endangered species list, but that
is a different issue. Cutting out carbohydrates does funny things to the
body. It is why people feel like they have the flu for the first couple
of weeks on all of these no-carb diets. Lacking carbohydrates for
energy, the body begins to burn fat for energy, which takes a couple of
weeks.

Weight loss comes mostly from the reduction in calories. If you eat a
big fatty ribeye steak, you will not be hungry in a few hours. If you
eat five donuts, you will be starving before the next mealtime. You
consumed the same number of calories, but one was fat and protein and
the other was all carbs. People who go on no-carb diets end up eating
far less than they used to eat, so they lose weight. If you are a fat
person, the trade-offs, at least in the short term, probably make sense.

In the end, the cold logic of things like the carnivore diet are no more
appealing than the cold logic of fashion. Imagine ads selling ripped
jeans that say, “go in debt for these and you will feel better until the
credit card statement arrives.” Instead, these diets are sold to people
as magic elixirs. The sales pitch works, because we are not so far
removed from our primitive past that we are immune to abracadabra words
that promise to make the gods happy and therefore make us happy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="/yb+CpgbDtGFsIW36Q8MSg==cb7wTygTNLvVXMeetYC08q8uNkDyVN1998KcimQA2S0FW5dYKl5XYmchW/Xfq1yTy4q"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="aZ0Ftt2mYYrPcbhkf2fjvw==cb725CkybK8F1L0MMFvU+BTTnoJ6FyAZBy1xhDFnjYEa7Ex7nP2YG9q2U3jquhm3v9b"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
