---
title: "Looking Back At 2023"
date: "2023-12-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31343"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31343"
---

It is that time of year again when I look back at all of the things I
got wrong and promise to do better next year. Well, not all the things I
did wrong, just the things I got wrong in last year’s [prediction
post](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28932). Everyone loves making
predictions, because everyone forgets about them, but few take the time
to revisit their predictions. An iron law of the universe is that you
learn more from your mistakes than your successes, so it is a good time
to take a look at those mistakes.

As far as the effects of the sanctions on Russia and what it will do to
Europe, I was amazingly on target. Gasoline in Germany is about ten
dollars per gallon and is expected to go higher in 2024. On the other
hand, India and China are experiencing an unprecedented boom in cheap
energy. On top of that, the Indians are reselling their refined crude to
Europe at a premium. The European economy is in recession now and it is
all due to waging war on its energy supplier.

As far as America, I was wrong about how inflation would play out. It
seems we got a pause and now it is picking back up again, just as the
Fed signals it is ready to start cutting rates in 2024. I still think we
end up in the Arthur Burns trap, but the timing of it may be a bit
different. I was wrong about interest rates, and I was wrong about the
economy as a whole. At least on paper, we have not gone into recession,
which seems to be due to relatively cheap energy.

I nailed the Trump story from the start. The lawfare against him has
played out as I have been saying since 2021. The party did try to rally
around the sacred black man, but he turned out to be too ridiculous even
for the Republicans. Instead, they have gone all in on the brown woman.
They are trying to fake poll her into contention or at least make her a
credible looking loser. War Karen is at 25% in New Hampshire, so they
can pretend she is the winner when Trump is gone.

On the Democratic side, I was all wrong. If you want proof we live in a
simulation run by sadists, look no further than Joe Biden. The mere fact
that this deranged simpleton is president is proof enough. The fact that
the party has not removed him from office and found a better actor for
the role suggests the simulation is broken. Unless something wild
happens in early 2024, it looks like Joe Biden will be on the ballot.
The robot historians will never be able to sort this one.

I got the Kanye West stuff mostly right. He is not in bankruptcy, but he
must be running out of money as he is now groveling to the usual
suspects in Hebrew. You just know that he will be seen in front of a
pile of shoes soon. I was wrong about Cozy getting nuked, but they have
no traffic now, so close enough. Ethan Ralph was the last guy on there
with an audience and he is now on Rumble. Maybe my 2024 prediction will
be Cozy shuts down for good.

I did not finish my book. I learned a good lesson on this front. Writing
a book is like any other project in that you have to see it through to
the end. If you take a break there is a good chance you will never come
back from break. I got about three quarters through it and realized I
wanted to revisit some of it. I thought maybe I was rushing things, so I
took a break and before long other things filled that time slot. One
thing I am doing now is setting aside time in the schedule to finish it
in 2024.

My Ukraine predictions were a mixed bag. I was wrong about Ukraine
pulling back to more defensible positions, even though that was the
sensible thing. I was also wrong about NATO escalating by introducing
“advisors” into Ukraine. Washington has sent a three-star general to
take over planning and there are rumors of NATO people operating in
country, but nothing has been confirmed. Putin mentioned Poland maybe
taking parts of Western Ukraine, but the Poles have not mentioned it.

It is too soon to tell how all of this will play out in Europe, but the
landscape looks bleak for the pro-America parties, so this is an
incomplete. The West did try to regime change Serbia this month, so I
can take a win on that one, but otherwise I was ahead of my skis on how
this plays out politically. I will take the win on the failure of
American weapons and what it does to the reputation of the MIC. Western
wonder weapons were a colossal failure in Ukraine last summer.

I was joking about human sacrifice being the next social fad, but boy
did I hit it out of the park on the Alex Jones stuff. The guy is now
facing over a billion in fines for offending some degenerates in
Connecticut. That case is a great example of how managerialism and mass
media converge create an alternative reality. The mass media has ignored
this case, so few people are aware of it, even though it is the most
egregious corruption of the law this country has ever seen.

On a positive note, I nailed my escape from Lagos prediction. It was a
close call as I closed in December, but it still counts as a win. I have
a bunch of things to do before I can live in the house fulltime, but
those are progressing. As is always the case, every small project turns
out to be more involved than expected. Given that what comes next will
be the 2024 predictions, I may write those up in the new place. If you
are going to make predictions, do it from atop a mountain lair.

The lesson every year when I look at these predictions from the past
year is that the safe bet is that current trends will continue.
Something unexpected has to happen for a trend to stop or change
direction. Those “black swan” events are rare, which is why we have the
expression. Of course, it is all about perception. Many people saw the
mortgage crisis coming, but the bankers did not and they were the
driving force behind that trend so we got a crisis.

The things that are nearly impossible to predict are the stupid things
that take on a life of their own, like the Ukraine war or Covid. The
people responsible for these things passed dozens of warning signs and
ignored the obvious choices in order to find the worst choice possible.
It is not in our nature to think people can be this willfully stupid and
destructive, so we cannot imagine such things. Yet, these are the people
who rule over us, so they will determine what happens in 2024.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="78NTjOf5xWr+O9lMs5nhzg==cb7cBAoqDq9NCp7ki05mbORS8ddei3CG5r3NydVrHafvo1cUGCxg4IdxpTRpFk7xqq2"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="gzxAXrOa7/GEXIWzEKCAzg==cb7cqIALnY3lSw0XiUo1VIQ2m2jofzTNI90gdYGUv5n76oPRs9QHlJ+rwJ/wO1ImTCH"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
