---
title: "A Surprise Ending"
date: "2023-08-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-08-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30538"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30538"
---

The latest indictments of Donald Trump are a good example of how
narrative is a controlling feature of the managerial state. This is the
fourth batch of indictments and arguably the most ridiculous. The
players on the side of the regime are like characters from a racial
satire. The fact that they accidentally posted the results before the
grand jury vote is what we have come to expect in the crisis of
competency. It is as if the regime is trying to prove the critics are
right.

Putting aside the idiocy of it all, the interesting bit is how narrative
drives the actions of the elites even when the narrative is false. They
come up with a scenario for how things will unfold in their favor over
some period of time. This gains circulation among the elites and their
key servants in the managerial class. Those key servants then announce
the narrative to the media, who then scurry about repeating it in
various ways until it becomes the consensus.

We see this with the Trump indictments. Before the first indictment,
there were rumors about the Department of Justice looking into Trump.
Then we had some stories about pressure on Merrick Garland to appoint a
special investigator to look into Trump’s role in the January 6 stuff.
It was at this point the key servants arrived to deliver the narrative
on the Trump indictment. They wrote op-eds and appeared on cable chat
shows to explain to the media what will happen.

What would happen is this. Trump would be indicted for mean words and
one of three things would follow. He would be disqualified under the
14th amendment. He would drop out of the race. The Republican Party
would disqualify him. All of this assumed that once he was indicted, his
support would collapse. The only people supporting him would be QAnon
weirdos and election deniers. This could then be used to pressure him if
pressure were needed.

Once the official narrative was announced, the race was on to be the
star of the show that got the ball rolling. The affirmative action guy
in New York pulled the lucky ticket and indicted Trump for the crime of
paying his bills on time. The excitement among the media was as if they
were waiting for the Great Pumpkin to arrive. They were about to see the
fulfillment of the narrative. Trump showed up, got charged and then
continued campaigning as his popularity spiked up.

It took a little while for the media to figure out that the narrative
was not playing out as they had been promised. CNN had a townhall hosted
by their new you-go-girl that was supposed to be a roasting of Trump
over his legal issues. To their horror, you-go-girl was not as good on
stage as on the couch. Trump all but put her over his knee for a good
spanking. Worse yet, the audience turned on the bimbo and laughed along
with Trump at the idiocy of the whole thing.

Instead of backtracking on the narrative, we got two sets of Federal
indictments of Trump, along with the same story lines from the prior
indictment. The only thing missing was a Greek chorus chanting, “We got
him this time. There is no way he escapes the narrative after this
indictment.” Of course, in both cases Trump’s polling has gone up as
people begin to see him as a victim of a malevolent system. At this
point, the official Trump narrative should have collapsed.

Instead, we have a fresh batch of indictments. There is also word that
other states with crackpot governors are looking to indict Trump. It is
becoming something like the iPod craze back in the before times. All of
the fashionable people in the provinces now want an indictment of Trump
like the cool people have in the big cities. At this rate, the Europeans
will be indicting Trump. Maybe they can drag him to the Hague for crimes
against humanity for eating his steak well done.

Note that in each effort to push the narrative along the focus has been
on humiliating Trump in the process. In this new show from Georgia, the
first thing they did was announce that they will mugshot Trump and
spread the pic online. The fact that they continue to think they can
humiliate this man by making him more popular is a staggering indictment
of these people. Trump will be selling shirts with his mugshot on them
to raise millions for his campaign.

The Trump business is just a recent example. The war on Russia has been
controlled by elite narrative framing. It is the same process. They
created a narrative of Russian collapse and instead of updating the
narrative in the face of disconfirmation, they reinvent the narrative
with new features, like a counter-offensive or now the new spring of
2024 Ukrainian offensive. No matter what reality is doing, the narrative
must be protected, even if it could bring disaster.

This is something to keep in mind as the economy falters this autumn.
People in the dreaded private sector will tell you that things are not
great in the economy, and it has all the signs of a recession. Inflation
is not defeated, despite claims to the contrary, and oil prices are
rising just in time for the heating season. The rise in the cost of
money is starting to have its <a
href="https://discernreport.com/mcdonalds-bankruptcies-soar-40-and-now-thousands-of-stores-are-about-to-disappear/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">effect</a> on the economy. Now China is
<a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/chinas-economy-verge-collapse-pboc-central-banker-calls-helicopter-money"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">admitting</a> that it is headed to
recession, due to slack demand from the West.

This is happening while the regime prepares to run the corpse of Joe
Biden as the man who not only saved the world from Trump, but the man
who singlehandedly saved the economy from disaster. The key servants
have been out instructing the media on the new <a
href="https://fortune.com/2023/08/15/joe-biden-re-election-economic-policy-bidenomics-republicans/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">narrative</a> about the economy. This
means we will be flooded with stories about the economic miracle just as
the economy is tipping into recession. Such a disconnect is the sort of
thing that causes revolutions.

That is what may be the death of our regime. The people at the top of it
live in a world of narratives that are independent of reality. They are
so sure they can compel reality to fit their version of reality that
they cannot imagine an alternative ending. The Tsar, no doubt, could not
imagine an alternative ending to his narrative. The many people who met
the national razor never were shocked by the end to their narrative. Our
rulers may be in for a surprise ending too.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="bIDD9yEPPpadEdzuDS4GrA==cb7u7tmWBKNMAL7yHUPugvMlTJQpSx4NAjhYja6kudnHdXnVQbXL3+cZ67fiY7KPWUO"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ygsUyI4eEhl5hjIcotVkYg==cb7UL9TAdNj/xhg7UjmSnpOrWeHJCz/RBeOG44aLe9fhK5BXwU7YBvNqs70t4CcJ6Pr"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
