---
title: "Whither Rufo-ism"
date: "2023-10-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30913"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30913"
---

Since the wrecking ball known as Donald Trump swung through the walls of
conservatism almost a decade ago, there has been a desperate attempt to
either rebuild the wall or fill the void left by the old conservatism.
The Never Trump project was mostly an effort to chase the barbarians out
of the city so the good people can rebuild the wall and restart the old
politics. For the most part, this project has failed as the massive hole
in the wall remains.

A good recent example of this is this <a
href="https://www.commentary.org/articles/matthew-continetti/new-right-vs-conservatism/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> by neoconservative writer Mathew
Continetti in Commentary Magazine. He claims that the populists
supporting nationalist policies and candidates are actually Marxists.
This has become a popular theme with the East Coast Straussians, of
which the neocons are a part. It is a hilariously insane line of
thought, owing to the steep decline in the human capital we see
everywhere in politics, but especially in the neoconservative
subculture.

On the other hand, the project to recreate the old dynamic of Left and
Right, has quietly plodded along with a new generation looking to create
a New Right. Many are just the hucksters we have come to expect in this
age. These are the people who live on social media and front-run
whatever is happening at the moment. Others are rejects from the old
conservative rackets hoping for a fresh start. These are the buzzards
that arrive at the end of every movement.

Then you have the more professional and perhaps sincere players who
operated on the fringes of conservatism but now see a chance to spread
their wings. The Claremont crowd, for example, is working hard to create
a New Right based on the primitive notion of natural right, supplemented
by appeals to the classical liberalism of the Framers along with large
dollops of Lincolnism. Claremont subscribes to the apocryphal version of
the founding and Lincoln promoted by Harry Jaffa.

It is from this world that we get Chris Rufu, the guy best known for
waging jihad against critical race theory in the schools. He also has
waged campaigns against the sexual exploitation of children in the
schools. He worked in support of the Florida bill to ban child
pornography in grammar schools. He now has a <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Americas-Cultural-Revolution-Conquered-Everything/dp/0063227533"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">book</a> out titled, *America’s Cultural
Revolution*, which describes the New Left and how it gained power. Paul
Gottfried reviewed it <a
href="https://amgreatness.com/2023/09/19/the-continuing-cultural-revolution/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a> and Charles Haywood <a
href="https://theworthyhouse.com/2023/07/20/americas-cultural-revolution-how-the-radical-left-conquered-everything-christopher-rufo/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

Most of what Rufo describes in his book has been kicking around
dissident circles for the last decade, mostly due to it kicking around
paleo circles for decades. Contrary to the claims of conservatism, the
New Left was never an economic or purely political movement, but a
cultural and spiritual movement. With the collapse of 20th century
conservatism and the cultural revolution of the last decade, this
reality has become clear to everyone except libertarians.

Rufo is not without his critics. In fact, Rufo-ism is a very modern
political phenomenon in that it is as much about its critics as its
content. Thanks to the cultural revolution and the internet, we now live
in a purely Schmitt-ian world, as in the German philosopher Carl
Schmitt. Politics is *only* about friends and enemies, so Rufo-ism is
becoming one of those points of the friend-enemy distinction. In a
follow up <a href="https://americanmind.org/salvo/revolution-deniers/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a>, Paul Gottfried talks about some
of Rufo’s critics.

One of the interesting things about the critics of Rufo, as well as his
supporters, is the dog that never barks. That dog is race. This is odd,
given the material at the heart of his current project. Critical Race
Theory is about race. Then there is the fact that Rufo spent much of his
early time on this protect lecturing white people that the real victims
of CRT were black kids. He put most of his effort into shooting down the
idea that CRT is antiwhite, on the grounds that the term is “racist.”

This is an important part of Rufo-ism and the milieu that spawned it.
These are people who are opposed to any discussion of race. It is not
that they oppose the New Left’s view on race but that they embrace the
New Left’s view on race more completely and sincerely than the Left
embraces it. Rufo does think race is a social construct and it must be
eliminated from all discourse. This New Right imagined by Rufo,
Claremont and others is not just colorblind, but colorless.

It is tempting to assume this is just the old conservative two-step.
They embrace the moral claims of the people they oppose but they have a
different and more lucrative proposal for how to achieve them. Of
course, there is the constant fear of being called “racist” which has
haunted conservatism since the Old Left declared discrimination the
greatest sin and diversity the greatest good. In other words, it is
tempting to think Rufo’s act is an effort to avoid the R-word.

This is a reasonable suspicion, but it does not appear to be the case
with Rufo nor the other popular figures from Claremont. Rufo married
outside of his race and has mixed-race children, so unlike his New Left
critics, who live like White Nationalists, Rufo’s “lived experience”
comports with his stated views on race. This is not an uncommon
phenomenon in this subculture. Further, the Claremont view of politics
leaves no room for race or even natural inequality.

There is another reason for the aversion to race. Rufo is a
science-denier. He rejects biology as we know it. He worked for the
Discovery Institute, which peddles crackpot theories like intelligent
design. Of course, the Claremont people largely reject the last two
thousand years of scientific progress. They instead embrace the
Straussian belief that nature comes with a secret code book on how
humans should act. If you say Aristotle’s name enough times, the secret
is revealed.

The starting place for the New Right is the assumption that humans are
infinitely malleable in terms of character. What you are as a person is
determined by the society into which you are born. If you get the moral
code of society right and enforce that morality through the
institutions, you end up with virtuous citizens. Since virtue in their
view is a life lived to the benefit of the polis, there can be no place
for things like race, because that undermines their idea of virtue.

If this sounds a bit like Marxism, it should, because this is the basic
assumption of Marx and most radical thinkers. Once you assume that
morality is an objective truth that lies outside of collective
agreement, it means there can be only one truly moral way to organize
human society. The goal of politics, therefore, is to discover it and
then ruthlessly enforce it. Instead of historical materialism as the
moral authority, the New Right embraces their interpretation of
classical philosophy.

Putting aside the underlying philosophical reason for their embrace of
colorless politics, it sounds a lot like the colorblind politics of the
old conservatism. In the 1980’s conservatives were sure America was
ready to move beyond race. Everyone had the same opportunity and society
would finally escape the long shadow of slavery, segregation, and
discrimination. Race would still exist. It simply would not matter in
our behavior as citizens and as a society.

The New Right is more reactionary, but the idea is the same. Instead of
the optimism of the 1980’s, they are informed by the pessimism of the
present. While they agree that discrimination is the worst sin, they see
the antiracists as bad as the racists they claim to oppose. The New
Right wants to use any means necessary to remove any discussion of race
and biological reality from the public square, mostly because they see
it as a tool of the people they claim to oppose.

From a dissident perspective, this New Right seems doomed to failure
because reality is undefeated, but that view suffers from a flawed view
of success. The New Left, like the Old Left and it antecedents since the
Mayflower needs a dancing partner, one that shares its ultimate goal.
That means something will rise up to take that spot now that the old
Buckley-style conservatism is caput. Rufo-ism is a good bet to be what
fills that void on the New Left’s dance card.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="kztUE5yYzwqk7x8U8GvYhQ==cb7x3VoWKFZT1CFAErXtPKoLLDvNVsZDpC7NLkGm7DvtAmfTLqQiOW45BAZYACkD8lH"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="cc5gk3iSKhzohkBweHTBLw==cb7w3a+agQJTYTCZGXFEZ2TfEffE/X3AA/Qq4oyngskwmPZaB3w/lGkqAWYNEOgCSQ1"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
