---
title: "Good Times"
date: "2023-12-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31281"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31281"
---

**Note:** For those into literary fiction, there is a relatively new
publisher in Texas that would like your attention. They asked me to post
a link to their site. Presumably they know what they are asking, so here
is their <a href="http://www.fallingmarbles.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">site</a>. With Winter Solstice upon us, maybe there is a
gift for the literary person in your life.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It would take a heart of stone not to enjoy the current moral panic that
has enveloped the elite monasteries of the country. For those unaware,
the presidents of MIT, Penn and Harvard were called to perform at a
Congressional morality play regarding pro-Palestinian protests on the
college campus. Important Jewish people have demanded an end to these
protests, so Congress swung into action. They called these three girl
bosses in to explain why they had not ended these protests.

Hilariously, these three girl bosses managed to fumble what everyone
assumed was an easy role for them in the show. The way these things work
is the politicians make a speech, put on their serious face, and ask the
witness to respond to a loaded question that can only have one answer.
The witness then puts on her serios face, gives a speech and confirms
what the questioner asked. Somehow these girl bosses did not know this,
and they gave nuanced answers.

Now, nuanced answers are good when the questioner is pretending to be
one of the bad people who claims to speak for the Dirt People. In these
cases, the nuanced answer is a way of saying that the Dirt People are
too stupid to understand the topic, without coming right out and saying
it. In this case, the questioners were literally speaking for the Jewish
supporters of Israel. Therefore, the nuanced answer was seen as the
worst form of heresy.

What that means in the American theocracy is all three girl bosses were
condemned as antisemites and expected to resign. Being girls bosses,
raised on the narcotics of feminism and multiculturalism, they refused.
“How dare these small hat wearing weirdos challenge our nuanced
answers?”, they surely thought to themselves. For their part, the small
hat wearing weirdos started pulling their money from these colleges,
threatening a larger boycott unless the girl bosses get fired.

To no one’s surprise on this side of the great divide, the only girl
boss to get shown the door was the white lady, Penn president Elizabeth
Magill. The weird look black girl boss of Harvard and the Jewish girl
boss of MIT have the full support of their board and refuse to resign.
This has created a problem, as to notice this is to notice the truth of
the liberal project, which is the greatest taboo. On the other hand, to
not notice this means letting the protestors say bad things about Jews
and Israel.

What is making this even more amusing is the Jewish donors are focusing
all of their energy on Harvard’s black girl boss and totally ignoring
MIT’s girls boss, thus making it near impossible to not notice things.
Steve Sailer had to be rushed to the emergency room for an overdose of
noticing. On the other hand, the people making a lucrative career out of
never noticing have not noticed any of this. They are preparing to fold
their tents and
<a href="https://twitter.com/realchrisrufo/status/1735155483424813085"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">declare</a> a moral victory.

That is the conservative golden bridge. Whenever it is time to take the
fight to the other side, they gather up their best principles and build
themselves a bridge over which they can escape the battlefield. You see,
this Jew-hating, black plagiarist will have to live with the knowledge
that people know she is a fraud. The fact that this woman has managed to
live with this her whole life does not register. They will comfort
themselves knowing they held the moral high ground over on the
sidelines.

Of course, the people backing black girl boss may have won this battle,
but they are in for a long war as the other side never takes no for an
answer. They are rather famous for that, so the war will continue. They
are now going after black girl boss on the grounds that she is an
academic fraud. She did her PhD in how to efficiently use Word’s copy
and paste feature. Apparently, she felt entitled to the work of others.
How in the world did she get that idea? Oh, right.

Conservatives, of course, are already assuming this signals the end of
the revolution as the revolutionaries set about eating their own. They
are preparing to celebrate themselves for having hidden under their bed
long enough for the bad guys to have burned down everything worth
burning. “The diversity warriors have done it now! They have angered the
Jews and there is no recovering from that. The Jews will vote Republican
in the next election, and we win!”

This is nonsense. The reason these girl bosses exist, regardless of
their form, is they are a rebuke to the unifying enemy which is the
white man. The sole reason Harvard hired this ridiculous woman as
president was because she was ridiculous. It was both a rebuke to the
pale penis people and a booshie goof. She has no real power or
authority, so no harm can come of it. This makes her hiring like so much
of what happens in this region of the clouds. It is a pose, a gesture, a
signal.

If the pale penis people out there in the places where the Dirt People
live start causing any trouble, the Cloud People will quickly put aside
this tempest in a teapot aside, lock shields and wage jihad against
their common enemy. No matter how much the various factions of the
permanent revolution may hate one another, they all agree that they hate
you more than they hate anything else on this earth. That is because you
are the living rebuke of everything they claim for themselves.

Even so, you take your joy where you find it. This is a long fight with
many dark days, so any fun you can have along the way you must enjoy to
the fullest. Watching these credentialled fraudsters claw each other’s
eyes out is great fun. It is also a useful reminder that the progressive
is out there. It can’t be bargained with. It can’t be reasoned with. It
doesn’t feel pity, or remorse, or fear. And it absolutely will not stop,
ever, until you are dead.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="vW3yn4CqsYXPbwYpcX1sRQ==cb7W+FKN+vJSlI1UPtIT6UeIqhVS2ZHPa2eu04HoxFR7ie2xNsh14qCpZReQTHAHEIG"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="VOzEfMUvAzSERSRFDe7R9g==cb7nVYspCES7ZKznBWtur4FSNhdEHhO5lOtZ3X/QHNib+GoMWwYOMcZQYSUhK9bMaQz"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
