---
title: "The Unreality System"
date: "2023-01-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-01-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29215"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29215"
---

The mainstream media has always been biased, but it was never
monolithic, as part of the claim of objectivity was to include
alternative opinion. The main newspapers during the Cold War made sure
to include critics of American Cold War policy along with conservative
critics of progressive social policy. The television chat shows made
sure to have at least one conservative on the panel. There was always a
bias and a lack of balance, but alternative voices did have a place.

Somewhere after the Cold War this ended. It is hard to pinpoint the
exact date, but pretty much every terrible media trend started with the
Clinton Crime Family blowing into town, so that is a good bet. In the
first Gulf War, CNN worked hard to be a legitimate news organization. A
few years later they converted themselves into the Clinton News Network
and they have never recovered. Outside of staged debates, the mainstream
media is a monolith now.

You see that with the Ukraine war. Here are some headlines Drudge has
been pushing the last few days. “Russia Tank Fury!” is linked to this <a
href="https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-11674127/Russia-blasts-blatant-provocation-Putins-puppets-call-Bundestag-NUKED-tank-deal.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> in the Daily Mail, claiming the
Russians are going crazy about the latest wonder weapons. Under that one
was this <a
href="https://www.yahoo.com/now/putin-lackeys-lose-minds-over-143837232.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> labeled by Drudge as “Nazi
Scumbags!” Beneath that one was this one labeled “Nuke Berlin!” which
links to this <a
href="https://www.the-sun.com/news/7215131/germany-crucial-leopard-tanks-ukraine/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> in the UK Mirror. In the top
right was this CNN <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2023/01/25/europe/western-tanks-ukraine-russia-intl-cmd/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a>, “Fierce New Step By The West.”

On the one hand, these absurd stories can be dismissed as the work of
people who know very little about their topics. People working in the
mass media are jarringly obtuse and usually assigned to topics about
which they have no knowledge, so it follows that their “reporting” is
childish and stupid. They have bosses though and they must know that
these whoppers about Ukraine are nonsense. Someone in these
organizations knows how to use the internet.

More importantly, every mainstream news outlet has at least one
government intelligence officer inside the organization. Hundreds of
former secret police agents work in American cable news channels. They
may be retired from the secret police, but they still have connections,
which is why they were hired. On top of the secret police, there are
hundreds of retired generals on contract. In fact, there are more
retired generals in media than active generals in the military.

That means an airhead like Allison Quinn can pen nonsense stories for
the Daily Beast, but CNN has people on staff to check the work of Nick
Paton Walsh. There are people hired by the company who had long careers
in the military and they can explain to Paton why a handful of tanks is
a meaningless gesture. They can use the last year of such gestures to
explain this to him and his editors. In other words, there is no excuse
for these nonsense stories about miracle weapons.

Of course, this latest batch of just-so stories come at a time when
things are looking rather grim for the Ukrainians. Their third defensive
line, they have four lines, is about to crumble in the city of Bakhmut.
German intelligence is <a
href="https://www.spiegel.de/ausland/russland-ukraine-news-am-freitag-britische-geheimdienste-bis-zu-50-000-wagner-soeldner-in-der-ukraine-a-be2408e1-6e72-4325-bc06-29d76e0c4d5e"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">warning</a> the government about the
heavy losses the Ukrainians are suffering in this battle. In the south
of Ukraine, reports are coming in about Ukrainian units defending
positions with nothing but small arms as they no longer have working
equipment.

Getting firm numbers on the losses in this war is difficult, but the
best estimates say that the Russians have lost up to twenty thousand
men. Ukraine may have lost ten times that number, based on their own
accounting. They started the war with about 300,000 soldiers. They have
had multiple mobilizations over the last year and they now say they have
200,000 soldiers. Then you have the thousands of pieces of equipment
Ukraine has lost, which is why they need new equipment.

The question that naturally arises is why is the mass media unanimously
repeating this latest batch of fantasy tales? There must be people
inside these organizations who know what is happening in Ukraine. There
have to be plenty of generals that could explain the idiocy of sending
modern tanks to Ukraine. There has to be someone working at these places
who can use the internet and check this stuff. Yet, it is an amen chorus
across the English speaking media.

The standard argument is that this is intended to keep the people in the
dark about this latest bloody boondoggle. The trouble with that is the
media hates the people and takes pleasure in mocking the rubes. The
people in charge certainly have no concern with public opinion. If they
wanted to sway public opinion, they would return to the old model of
mock debates in which their preferred side looked the best. This was the
Cold war model and it worked reasonably well.

Instead, we get something closer to Soviet media model. Colonel Douglas
Macgregor went off script early on and was sent packing. He now does
YouTube shows with other former cable employees who went off-script. In
other words, it is not just that the media sings with one voice now.
They are enforcing the narrative on their own people. Is it fear of the
secret police minders in their ranks? Is it access journalism? Are we
simply seeing the full blossoming of the hive mind?

Maybe all of those things play a role, but there may be something else
going on that reaches beyond the mass media. Across the managerial
class, we keep seeing confusion between narrative and reality. Someone
produces a pleasing explanation for something and everyone jumps on it.
That narrative to explain some vexing event becomes reality. In other
words, in this increasingly insular world, narrative has replaced
reality as the standard of truth.

Every system has a selection pressure. A system is rules and the rules
favor some things and disfavor other things. Over time, the favored
things will increase and the disfavored things will decrease. If you
live in a system disconnected from reality, like the political-media
complex, the rules can also be disconnected from reality. The resulting
selection pressure can favor that which is odds with reality. Over time,
you get more unreality and less reality.

Given that this is a human system, it means the system has been
selecting for people who favor unreality over reality. Over time, it
ceases to be a competition around specific reality but reality itself.
The people who prefer spinning and embracing fantasy get rewarded while
those stubbornly clinging to reality are boiled off. We may have reached
the point where unreality is the benchmark. The story that is most
pleasing and least truthful is what wins the fitness battle.

Another good example of this is Covid. During the panic, the mass media
was like a murmuration of starlings, darting from one fanciful story to
the next. The whopper that best flattered the people inside the media
bubble was the winner. It was if there was a contest to see who could
come up with the most ridiculous claim. That may have been what was
happening. The selection pressure for unreality drives these people to
the most fanciful narratives.

Whatever you favored explanation, we have reached a point where the mass
media is mostly self-parody. If you want to know what is happening in
the world, you are best to ignore the mass media. Maybe you start there
in order to first find out what is not happening in the world. At least
you narrowed the possibilities. Otherwise, our media is not even
propaganda. It is a weird game of make believe designed to please the
people inside who seek a life of unreality.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="VpmQoe0zGxYihvYWGuqBaA==cb7jubml2axWDAI24HGKN9tGh+8M7KRYj/yfnttsd2sDJT4yVjGql2yCopSv+/8igXc"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="0sSOHL7XPezr4yI+3n4ykQ==cb7u+Q3rYCLvauIJAoDz5wpqbTfxpyaqGNEqFVsd4gmPX9KGYjOobEM5n+t1FLaNcFu"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
