---
title: "Fortune’s Wheel"
date: "2023-09-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30686"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30686"
---

In August 1936, the Soviet Union held the first of a series of trials of
former Bolsheviks who had been accused of various crimes against the
state. The first group accused were Old Bolsheviks who had been allies
of Stalin at one point. They had later sided with Trotsky and been
stripped of their positions. By this point Trotsky was in exile and his
supporters were all in various states of disfavor. One element of the
first trial was the claim that the accused were still in contact with
Trotsky.

At the time, the international Left was firmly in the Bolshevik camp, as
this was the first successful radical government in the world. Whatever
the doctrinal difference within the international radical camp, no one
could deny that the Bolsheviks had managed to take power in a large
important country. As a result, radicals found a way to justify what was
happening to the accused. The cause was more important than any man, so
no one dared criticize what was happening.

Even when it should have been clear that the trials had little to do
with the alleged crimes, radicals around the world found a way to
justify what was happening in the name of solidarity. “No enemies to the
left” was never a real thing in radical politics, as left-wing politics
has always been defined by endless schisms and disputes among rival
factions but as the show trials progressed, it became a useful way to
rally support in the face of criticism from outside radicalism.

What followed, of course, was more show trials of Old Bolsheviks, who
were found guilty and then shot. A few escaped death and were sent to
labor camps where they were expected to die. The show trials were then
followed by waves of arrests, executions, and purges of the party. No
one knows for sure how many died in Stalin’s purges, but the general
consensus is between seven hundred thousand and one million people were
killed in the process.

There are a lot of lessons about the nature of human society to be drawn
from the Bolsheviks and especially Stalin. Radicalism since the French
Revolution has always been about a radical break from the past, but in
every case, it turns out be a horrific replay of the worst of mankind’s
past. Stalin was the extreme example of the worst Tsar, an industrial
strength version of Ivan IV, rather than the leader of a revolutionary
movement to usher in a radical new form of society.

Another lesson of the purges was that there is never any appeal to the
humanity and compassion of the radicals. Even when Stalin purged the
beloved Nikolai Bukharin, radicals found a way to justify it. Stalin’s
decision to murder his old friend and most loyal Bolshevik should have
been viewed as a monstrous crime that could only be committed by a
monster, instead radicals found a way to explain it away. Again, the
cause is bigger than any one man or group of men.

Of course, the greatest lesson of all is that when the old rules break
down or are willfully destroyed, what is left is a lawless world. Once
the law collapses, everyone becomes an outlaw by definition. In a world
where everyone lives outside the law, the people who survive and thrive
are always the most cunning and ruthless. In the case of the Bolsheviks,
Stalin was not the smartest or the most persuasive, but he was the most
cunning and ruthless, so he came out on top.

All of this would be ancient history if not for what we see happening in
Washington with the show trials being run by the ruling junta. Calling
the people in charge the Biden administration is no longer sensible as
it is clear that Biden is deep in the throes of dementia and barely able
to do basic things. The government is now run by a collection of people
who operate in the shadows. They control things through the people
appointed to various posts in the administration.

Much like Stalin’s trials, the process has moved from arresting minor
figures on trumped up charges to now arresting the former president. It
is not inconceivable to think they may exile Trump in order to keep him
off the ballot. Of course, the viciousness and cruelty of the show
trials grows worse with every turn. A judge just sentenced the leaders
of the Proud Boys to decades in prison. The judge used the sentencing
hearings as a chance to denounce the enemies of the party.

That is another feature of the Stalin trials that bears attention. In
every one of the show trials, the judges were outlandish supporters of
the party and the charges brought against the accused. These were men
picked because of their uncertain status within the party, particularly
with regards to Stalin. The judges in the current show trials seem to
feel the same pressure, so they are making sure the cases proceed
exactly as the party expects them to proceed.

Of course, the radicals in the cheering sections are following the same
script as the radicals who cheered the show trials. The same people who
cry salty tears over a black criminal getting shot in the commission of
a crime are cheering the harsh penalties handed down to grandmothers in
these show trials. The cause is more important than the rule of law and
their thirst for the blood of their enemies trumps whatever sense of
justice that ever existed in their souls.

The most important lesson of the Stalin years is that the terror that
Stalin inflicted ended when Stalin’s life ended. At no point was he
talked out of murdering people. He never had second thoughts or pangs of
guilt. After his death, a letter from his old friend Bukharin was found
in which Bukharin appealed to Stalin as a friend. Stalin kept it in his
desk so he could read it from time to time, presumably so he could
remember how he outmaneuvered even his closest friends.

Tyranny ends when the tyrant and his supporters end. That last part is
the most important part of the process. When Stalin died his supporters
were then purged and sidelined, with some ending up in the camps. The
party leadership went through a de-Stalinization phase. The reason is
the tyrant is always a symptom. It is his supporters in the cheering
section who are the ultimate cause. It is only when you remove the
fanatics and psychopaths that normalcy can return.

During the Napoleonic Wars, there was a British officer named Sir
William Sidney Smith who was particularly good at vexing Napoleon in
battle. Eventually, the French captured him and Napoleon had him put in
a Paris prison. Smith was able to escape with the help of royalist
enemies of Napoleon. In the prison was found a shingle on which he had
written a letter. In the letter Smith quoted a passage from Rousseau
that should be inspiration for all political prisoners

“Fortune’s wheel makes strange revolutions, it must be confessed; but
for the term revolution to be applicable, the turn of the wheel must be
complete. You are today as high as you can be. Very well. I envy not
your good fortune, for mine is better still. I am as low in the career
of ambition as a man can well descend; so that, let this capricious
dame, fortune, turn her wheel ever so little–I must necessarily mount,
for the same reason you must descend.”

The men and women rotting in dungeons at the hands of the regime are in
the very condition of Sir William Sidney Smith. They are in prison
because they vex the regime, not because they are outlaws. In a general
sense, all of us are in the same condition, just free to talk around
until another example is needed. Like Sir William Sidney Smith, fortunes
wheel will turn, and we will rise the regime shall fall. Those who
cheered the loudest for the show trials will be remembered the most.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="vQIK6mGLzLb1p7u2Q+fVjg==cb7DXGfq2sI386YU39JqyZlrpUkNkmpCU7R8IPHZ2LCknCRLWok69bfJCWqat7SmNp4"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="dDmD6la0thpfNvV8FPNt2g==cb7HyyMSmPveov2lBTBQe92WN25tGVJPZ8+x0lBu4pghVlWC/1KYmehhapRKPBln0H4"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
