---
title: "Ungovernable Costs"
date: "2023-12-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31341"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31341"
---

Over Christmas, when people are not paying attention, the oligarchs have
been busy updating their terms of services. These are “agreements” you
must accept in order to use their service, which in most cases is a
monopoly. In those rare cases when there is more than one supplier of
the service, they work together in order to have identical terms of
service agreements. The terms of service agreement is slowly becoming
the constitutional order of the country.

One of the noteworthy changes comes from Amazon, which announced they
would start packing ads into their video content. Until now, subscribers
to their service did not get ads in video and audio content as they paid
an annual fee. Now Amazon Prime users will get to pay the annual fee and
get to see ads in their content. No doubt that for this additional
service, Amazon plans to raise their annual fee in 2024. After all, it
costs money to pack those ads in your content.

This is a familiar pattern. Cable television came with the promise that
in exchange for a monthly fee you would not get ads. That remains
somewhat true for premium services, like HBO, but with the end of
over-the-air television, all of the ad-based channels are on a
pay-for-view services now with their ads. If you want video content you
pay for a service like Hulu or Apple TV so you can watch the content you
used to have on your cable service, with all of the ads.

Sporting events are now ad platforms where a small portion of the
presentation is the game you are trying to watch. An American football
game is officially one hour, but with stoppages it lasts about ninety
minutes. With ads and long breaks for proselytizing about the latest
thing, the games take over three hours. Even the calling of the games is
now packed with ads and lectures. “This description of what just
happened is brought to you by our good friends at Pfizer” is a real
thing now.

It is not just video content where we see this. It used to be that
stadiums were named after a local famous person or the place where they
were built. Maybe the owner of the thing named it for himself. Now they
all have stupid names for fly-by-night companies that disappear once the
suckers get wise. Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh is now something
called Acrisure Stadium. According to the company, “Acrisure is a
fast-growing fintech leader that operates a global insurance broker.”

This tendency to tax you this way, and it is a tax, will soon be into
every nook and cranny of your life if you let it. Agree to a lease on a
new car and the entertainment system will soon require you to watch a
video ad or take some sort of survey before you can start the car. When
the car makers transition to options as a service, they will come with
ads you must endure to use them. Turn on the heated seats in winter and
you will be hit with ads for the latest sexual dysfunction drugs.

The people on the other end defend this dynamic on the grounds that
their costs go up, so they have to find new ways to generate revenue.
Amazon could keep it honest and raise their annual fee or separate it
from the bundle of services they call Prime, but that would risk
information symmetry. Their users could then decide if the fee is worth
the content, rather than thinking about the free shipping or other
stuff. Packing in ads muddies the waters and thus makes the user easier
to fleece.

That is why it is best to think of the service economy as a tax economy,
rather than a traditional marketplace. Like the government, these firms
are deliberately entangling you in their service so they can take a
little here and little there. Government is a protection service that is
always adding fees, levies, and new taxes to the cost of the service in
the same way we see with technology services. Like government, these
services always first seek to be a monopoly.

Of course, this is why governments are supposed to prevent monopolies
and oligopolies like we see today. Part of the protection racket that is
government is to prevent privateers from preying on the people. It used
to be that these terms of service agreements were limited by the courts.
The one-way contract was always assumed to be the powerful preying on
the weak, so the courts stepped in on the side of the weak to make sure
the deal was fair. That no longer happens in America.

Putting all of that aside and just thinking about this process as a form
of taxation, the question is why are these taxes rising? Inflation is
one possible answer, but this process predates the rise in inflation.
For a long time, they said we had low inflation, under two percent most
years, yet the system is flooded with new taxes and new ways to tax
people through new methods. Fifty years ago, ads were easily avoided,
but today it is nearly impossible to live an ad-free life.

One way to start thinking about this is to look at the government in
terms of per capita spending in constant dollars. Fifty years ago, the
federal government accounted for about $4,500 per person. Today it is
$20,000. Again, this is in constant dollars, so expansion of the money
supply is included. That extra government comes with secondary and
tertiary costs. It means millions of pages in new rules, which means
millions of new expenses for complying with those rules.

Then you have the cultural effects. All of these new fads that are
religiously enforced by these massive corporations are not free. It cost
money to rearrange all of the video services to promote black content
during the George Floyd campaign. It cost InBev real money to associate
their brand with pedophiles. In other words, the cultural revolution as
currently fought by the managerial system is packed with hidden costs
and those hidden costs and paid for by thousands of hidden taxes.

When you start to think of these small changes cumulatively, they point
to an inherent defect of the managerial system. The point of the system
is to expand control of society which means ever expanding costs. This
starts to crowd out other things, productive things like making stuff in
factories. This requires new ways of raising revenue, which brings its
own costs. Most importantly, the raison d’être of the system needs
constant maintenance, which explains the culture war.

In other words, managerialism slowly crowds out the productive elements
of society in favor of those that serve the system. This means the cost
of the system grows while the effective tax base shrinks. Before long
you end up with a society in which everyone is spending their productive
hours either watching ads for penis pills or producing new ways to force
people to watch ads for penis pills. At some point it must reach a
crisis where the costs exceed the ability to tax.

In the small scale this happened in many American cities in the middle
of the last century with the first waves of the cultural revolution.
Progressive governments shifted from providing protection to social
experimentation. This led to chaos, so business and taxpayers moved out
of the cities. The shrinking tax base meant the only choices were to
roll back the experiments or raise tax rates. They always chose the
latter, so taxpayers continued to feel until many cities were insolvent.

What we are seeing now is those city experiments conducted on a
continent sized country, enlisting the oligarchical power of
corporations. The result must be the same as you cannot have an economy
based on people lecturing one another on the latest thing any more than
you can have an economy based on protecting people from muggers and drug
dealers unleashed by the state. Just like the cities, the country will
reach a point at which everyone agrees it is <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Ungovernable-City-Vincent-Cannato/dp/0465008445"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">ungovernable</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="9xYOuZPaFBbdvE2xaLV3Pw==cb7oYTdqcuEa3kUTX7mUiwIiKbXuyiYWDrUNLTd/78RXOQrWqgevVY21qTXE1bMSVcm"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="l6dAMsgT7jwaV5OnK8tA0g==cb7AE0Hx2gRQE4Aj9VUWOMLDbIGqf7SDUOrUahLwuuWxlp8ELmiTRWmPMkY8P0BIe+L"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
