---
title: "The BRIC Bat"
date: "2023-08-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-08-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30617"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30617"
---

**Note \#1:** If you are thinking the kids need something to wear to
school that celebrates our diversity, consider buy one of
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">these new shirts</a>. Nothing tells the
world how hard you celebrate our diversity like a Lagos Trading Company
t-shirt.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note \#2:** I was invited on to chat with Peter Quinones about the
Republican debate, the courage of Trump, the Tucker interview and many
other things. For those missing the sound of me droning on each Friday,
you can get your fix
<a href="https://odysee.com/@Freemanbeyondthewall:d/939:9"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Imagine one morning you wake up to the news that the dollar has lost
twenty percent of its value against the other major currencies.
Throughout the day, the dollar continues to fall as governments and
banks dump dollars and treasuries. By midafternoon, the news is all
about emergency meetings in Washington between the White House,
Congressional leaders, and the Federal Reserve. The dollar has lost half
its value and treasuries are now flooding the secondary market.

By that evening the public is starting to understand what the collapse
of the dollar will mean for them, so they have shut down the internet in
an effort to buy gold and silver from online dealers. The next day,
retail gold and silver dealers, pawn shops and coin brokers are all
closed. There are rumors of jewelry shops being looted as people look
for anything of intrinsic value. By the second day of the crisis, all
businesses have closed as state and local government declares martial
law.

This is the dream scenario of the goldbugs and doomsday types that you
find lurking around websites sponsored by precious metal dealers. Since
Nixon closed the gold window, these people have been predicting the
demise of the dollar. Peter Schiff has made himself rich telling people
the dollar is about to <a
href="https://news.bitcoin.com/economist-peter-schiff-warns-of-full-blown-financial-crisis-hitting-us-economy-before-fed-reaches-inflation-target/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">collapse</a>. The reason these
predictions have not happened is this will never happen. This sort of
collapse is simply not possible in the modern age.

The main reason this cannot happen is the rest of the world holds
trillions in treasuries and dollars in their reserves. About seventy
percent of what the world has on its balance sheets is denominated in
dollars. Of course, the world’s most important and most traded commodity
is energy and it is traded in dollars. There can be no collapse in the
dollar like this because there is a buyer for every dollar. As soon as
anyone starts to dump dollars, someone is right there to buy them.

That does not mean the dollar is a permanent feature of global commerce
or that it can never lose value. The dollar rises and falls like other
currencies because currencies are valued relative to one another. It
just means that the dollar will disappear only after a long process by
which it is replaced by something else. That process will take a long
time and it will happen in fits and starts. In fact, the process has
already begun and yet there is no panic in the currency markets.

One part of the process is the BRICS summit last week, where Argentina,
Ethiopia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and the United Arab Emirates were
added to Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa. What started
out as a handy way for traders to identify emerging economies is now a
loose confederation of countries promising to cooperate with one another
on global matters. Most importantly, they are working to trade with one
another in their home currencies, not dollars.

This is not a small thing. These countries are some of the biggest
economies in the world and they have a lot of people. About 40% of the
world’s population are in this group of eleven countries. Most
importantly, they control about eighty percent of the world’s energy
supply. If they decide to trade energy products in something other than
dollars, a slow-motion version of the scenario at the start of this post
will begin to take shape as the dollar loses its primary benefit.

The way things have worked for the last fifty years is you needed
dollars and dollar equivalents to trade energy on global markets. The
reason for that is the big oil producers only accepted dollars for
payments. The Saudis led the way on this back in the 1970’s when they
agreed to use only dollars in exchange for security guarantees from
Washington, as well as technology assistance. If you want to buy oil it
means first getting the dollars you need to buy it.

This has had an interesting effect on the dollar. Because there has
always been excess demand for dollars somewhere in the world, Washington
has been able to create as many dollars as it needs to maintain the
domestic economy and operate a global military empire, without
inflation. Since the U.S. treasury is the best collateral on earth, it
has meant unlimited low interest borrowing for American governments and
for global corporations doing business in dollars.

Ultra-low borrowing rates are the result of a complex form of
seigniorage. This is the difference between the cost of creating money
and the value of the money, Put another way, it is the profit from
having the monopoly on the currency. In the old days, the king took a
profit from minting coins. Since everyone in his realm had to transact
using coins with his face on them, everyone had to buy his coins in
order to do business with him or anyone in his realm.

In this age, the profit Washington gets from having the world’s reserve
currency comes in the form of low borrowing rates and low inflation.
This in turn has allowed the domestic economy to grow, despite massive
borrowing. In fact, it is borrowing that has inflated the economy over
the last decades. In a weird way, borrowing has become the business of
America because those treasury bills are used throughout the global
economy to facilitate commerce.

That is about to change, and it is already changing. When the Russians
decided to accept only rubles for payment, they did so to defend their
economy against the sanctions imposed by the West. When it worked and
the ruble stabilized, it showed the world that there can be life after
the dollar. The world needs Russia oil, gas, agricultural products and
increasingly its manufactured goods. If they demand rubles as payment,
then it means the world needs rubles too.

This is why BRICS is moving from a label to an organization. If the
Russians can do this, then the other countries can do this as well. The
West is even more dependent on China and India than they are on Russia.
Brazil is a massive exporter of energy products and agricultural
products. The plan by Western environmentalist to shut down all domestic
farming cannot happen unless the West can make itself dependent on food
imports from countries like Brazil.

By adding these six new countries, BRICS is laying the groundwork for an
alternative currency to be used for international settlement. Given the
makeup of the group, this will most likely start with energy. The Saudis
will be the first to accept Chinese and Indian currency for payment. The
Russians are already doing this with regards to oil exports to these two
countries. Once the Saudis take this step, the dollar will be joined by
the yuan and rupee as petro-currencies.

What this means for King Dollar is not much right now. Demand for
dollars has already been declining, which is why inflation has been high
the last two years. According to the Fed, inflation remains a problem
and they will continue to hike interest rates in order to achieve their
target goal of two percent. In other words, as the demand for dollars
declines globally, the Federal Reserve will have to reduce the supply of
dollars, which means borrowing rates will keep rising.

It is important to keep in mind that the countries involved in BRICS do
not want the dollar to collapse or even sharply decline. The entire
world economy depends on the dollar, including their own economies. What
they are aiming for is a slow transition away from dollars that lets
them lead the way in de-dollarization. The dollar and its goofy little
brother the euro will remain major currencies in the end, just working
next to other major currencies in international trade.

The big question is whether Western leaders understand what is happening
and what is about to happen to their economies. In a multipolar world
with multiple currencies, each currency is judged by the underlying
economy, not through the clever legerdemain of Wall Street bankers. An
economy that does not make things or possess natural resources is not
going to have a strong currency. This does not bode well for Western
economies based on services.

Then you have the elephant in the room. The global American Empire is
facing a choice over the next decades. Do we fund the old age of the
swelling retired class or do we spend money on the war machine. In the
Republican debate, all but one was in favor of slashing Social Security
to fund Ukraine. Given the racial makeup of the retired class, you can
be sure the Democrats are onboard with that as well. It is not hard to
see where this is heading over the next decade.

On the other end, rising interest rates mean the young will be shut out
of the housing market in most of the country. New car prices have gone
up 30% over the last three years and that is before the higher cost of
borrowing. In other words, it will not just be old people made poorer by
this process. The young, diverse, and technically deficient will also be
made poorer. The cost of politicians celebrating their generosity to
foreigners is about to rise as the dollar falls.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="kMOWBIki2SEaXdQmcuPUgA==cb70JUbzMTUgIC98sYzJb0Ao0l/8NyTMahaagKQQtwyIXe1r3DlPlIdUTsjhOPEdlb6"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="gFQLSnyh1gPBEjw5jNQkrg==cb7hEy1o8RQTkuOqP+MEZdgtwkI+WDojPfBUwgFyA0J44Wq8DoLOD2oQ19K26TGYRQC"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
