---
title: "Trouble In The Levant"
date: "2023-10-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30903"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30903"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door I have a post about the classic
historical drama, *Doctor Zhivago*, a post about demographic reality and
the Sunday podcast. You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A good rule when trying to understand anything in the Middle East is to
first assume that nothing is as it appears on the surface. This is the
land of endless intrigue and a land nearly devoid of candor. Another
good rule is to assume all interested parties are lying, even those
outside the region. This is especially true of anything concerning
Israel, which is usually at the center of intrigue. Naturally, that is
the place to start when analyzing the recent fighting in the Levant.

For those living off-grid until this morning, the Arab militia group
Hamas launched a series of daring raids into Israel from the Gaza strip.
They overran Israeli border posts, blinded radar systems, and attacked
IDF garrisons. Once inside Israeli, they attacked some sort of outdoor
rave that was going on at the time, killing hundreds of people and
taking many of them as prisoners. Israel is now promising to <a
href="https://www.onmanorama.com/news/world/2023/10/09/gaza-complete-siege-israel-order-power-food-fuel-cut.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">genocide</a> the Arab population in the
Gaza strip in retaliation.

The first question to ask is how was it possible for such a large,
complex operation to happen in a walled ethno-state like Israel? The IDF
is a fully modern, high-tech military that is supposed to be the best in
the word at defending against insurgents, yet they were caught unawares
by Hamas. Further, Mossad exists to monitor these populations for
exactly these sorts of threats. Somehow, poorly armed militants were
able to organize this without being detected.

Adding to the intrigue is this <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/world/middle-east/iran-israel-hamas-strike-planning-bbe07b25"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> in the Wall Street Journal
claiming inside information on how this was planned. Since we know
regime media does no independent reporting, it means the story was
recited to them by the regime. Is it plausible that Washington knew
about this while Israel knew nothing? How likely is it that Washington
knew about this and did not relay warnings to Israel? Maybe the story is
a fake planted by the neocons to paint Iran as the villain.

Regardless, this attack could not come at a better time for the Israeli
government, which has been in crisis for a year. Not so long ago there
were large protests over constitutional reforms pushed by the Netanyahu
government. Some thought civil war was possible, due to the scale of
unrest. Those protests reflect a larger demographic problem within
Israel. The old liberal ruling class stopped having children, while the
ultra-orthodox continue to breed like rabbits.

A full-scale mobilization and war on the Palestinians is just the thing
to suppress dissent and whip up support for the state. After all, this
is the reason that Washington has been on a war footing since 1945. All
of the parties in Israel will now have no choice but to fall in behind
the Netanyahu government, at least until the emergency is over and the
hostages are returned or killed by the IDF. The early results suggest
the plan is to annihilate Gaza and drive off the remaining population.

There is another benefit. For decades Israel has been trying to get the
United States to attack Iran and topple the Iranian regime. This was the
neocon plan in the Bush years, but the debacle in Iraq forced them to
table the idea. Hamas and Hezbollah are backed by Iran, so a slaughter
in Gaza could provoke Iran, which in turn would give Washington an
excuse to attack them. The bodies were not cold and Lindsey Graham was
out <a href="https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-765271"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">reading</a> this exact script to the
media.

Israel and the neocons are not the only people dancing on rooftops over
what they are calling Israel’s 9/11. The Saudis are probably taking a
sigh of relief. Washington has been pressuring the Saudis to normalize
relations with Israel, something they would like to avoid as it would
complicate their relationship with Iran. Both countries are now in BRICS
and slowly working through their longstanding issues. Of course, China
and Russia are promising both sides support in this effort.

The Saudis have not made it this long by luck. They understand that the
world is changing, and they know their role in this new world will
change with it, but they are not going to get ahead of things either.
They probably want to see how things develop with Russia and China
before alienating Washington. If they can remain on good terms with all
sides for now, they have more cards to play. This new flare up in
Arab-Israeli tensions give them an excuse to slow-play Washington.

Then we have Iran, which is going to get the blame from Israel and the
neocons for instigating this attack. Whether Iran did or did not
greenlight the attack is debatable, but they have real power in this
game. They have also cultivated strong relations with Russia and China,
who would love to play a bigger role in the region. This new war gives
Iran a reason to invite both counties into the process of finding a
solution to the conflict, thus strengthening Iran.

That is another angle to this that does not get mentioned. Washington
has been slowly pushed out of regional politics, outside of Israel and
the garrisons in Syria. With the massive drain on the American war
machine in Ukraine, is Washington capable of launching a war against
Iran? Can Israel sustain their war without new supplies from Washington,
which may be low on weapons too? In 2006 Israel actually ran out of
certain munitions fighting Hezbollah.

In other words, Iran may be calculating that this is now the time to
reset the game board in order to setup new negotiations. Imagine a
scenario in which both China and Russia are pushing for a regional peace
conference, but Washington and Israel are pushing for war with Iran, but
neither has the means to do it. Just as every other Western empire has
exhausted itself in the Middle East, Iran may be thinking the Global
American Empire has exhausted itself and is ready to leave.

This brings up another angle. The Russians are the big winner in this
for the simple reason that the West now has to choose between Israel and
Ukraine. Washington had to requisition 80% of Israel’s reserve munitions
for Ukraine. They scoured the empire for weapons and ammunition. Facing
a second front, they will have to choose and everyone on planet earth
knows who will win that one. A hot war in the Levant is going to make
for a very cold winter in Ukraine.

This may not be the worst thing for Washington. Ukraine is a loser that
will only end poorly, so putting that war on the ignore list and
focusing attention on this new front in the Middle East could be a
blessing in disguise. Right now, the volunteer army of Ukraine experts
are rebranding as Hamas, Hezbollah, and Iran experts, so the Ukraine war
can be quickly forgotten. The power of regime media is the power to
ignore, so if they ignore Ukraine, everyone ignores Ukraine.

One interesting sidenote to all of this is the conservative zombies
chanting about how weakness in Ukraine has led to aggression against
Israel. They have no idea why they are saying this, but they are not
entirely wrong. The failure in the proxy war with Russia has exposed the
rot in the American system. Decades of looting and grifting have left
the empire unable to follow through on its threats. As a result, the
world is becoming less afraid of Washington’s bluster and bullying.

That is the subtext to all of this. The fossils from the Reagan-Bush
Museum are not wrong when they say Israel is the only Western outpost in
the Middle East. It is just that the West is in decline and that means
these outposts will be abandoned or overrun as part of the process of
decline. If Israel is to survive it means becoming something other than
an outpost of the West. If the West is to survive, it means abandoning
these outposts and setting about the task of renewal.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="VxYjzQkqWvEu0yQQwwHaAQ==cb7gAwWBND/bDhFaDAltn8gcoFgP/GUfzeNHqbsZonJ7RsGzoztDJM6hbMlUPh1bgsO"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="uCJ+e6CC8cfGWn7dlFNpjA==cb7ZyfiMfhlTaCvyyNR7LM/YMPjO4+VQxCSrQBy5vn2MHv4tY4KqHSmJpRZJ4EO7tFq"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
