---
title: "Phase Change"
date: "2023-08-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-08-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30605"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30605"
---

**Note \#1:** I was invited on to chat with Peter Quinones about the
Republican debate, the courage of Trump, the Tucker interview and many
other things. For those missing the sound of me droning on each Friday,
you can get your fix
<a href="https://odysee.com/@Freemanbeyondthewall:d/939:9"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note \#2:** Behind the green door is a post about how everything is
gay, a post about the terribleness of Tennessee Williams, and the Sunday
podcast. You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The war in the Ukraine is about to go through a phase change as the
Ukrainian initiative comes to an end this autumn. For most of the year,
the war has been characterized by Western initiates, along with
Ukrainian military action. Planning and publicizing the Ukrainian spring
offensive dominated the first half of the year, while the last three
months have been dominated by the offensive itself. By all accounts this
will run out of steam in the next few weeks.

According to Western media, the point of the counter-offensive was to
use NATO trained brigades using Western equipment and tactics to break
through Russian defenses in the south and create a corridor to the Sea
of Azov. This would split Russian forces and isolate the Crimea. The
assumption was that the Russian army would abandon their positions
rather than fight. This in turn would create a political crisis in
Russia, perhaps forcing a withdraw from Ukraine.

What happened instead was the newly trained Ukrainian units charged
headlong into massive minefields while being slammed with Russian
artillery. The internet was full of videos showing burning NATO
equipment and desperate Ukrainian soldiers trying to <a
href="https://gab.com/system/media_attachments/files/141/389/417/playable/81f02409570d6bd8.mp4"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">escape</a> the minefields. Western
sources indicate Ukraine lost a third of this force in the first weeks
of the offensive. This <a
href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Ukraine.jpeg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">map</a> of the southern defensive lines
shows how little progress the Ukrainians have made in three months.

In addition to the big push in the south, the Ukrainians tried to retake
Bakhmut, which they had lost in the spring. By all accounts this was a
total failure and they ceased trying to retake the city. Those forces
have been diverted to the south for one last shot at making some
progress. Right now, the Ukrainians are putting their last Western units
into a final push to capture a tiny village called Robotino. This
appears to be the final battle of the Ukrainian counter-offensive.

On the public relations front, Ukraine has been launching small drone
attacks against buildings in the Moscow suburbs. They have also launched
attacks against Crimea using their remaining Storm Shadow missiles they
got from Britain, as well as the small, improvised drones they have been
using on civilian targets. These efforts have no military value, but
they are seen as moral boosters. The images are quickly spread around by
Western media.

The long and short of this is the West appears to be in a panic over the
results, especially in the south. The narrative said that Russia is a
paper tiger, and the army would break at the first sign of Western
equipment. At this point, the Ukrainians were supposed to be bathing in
the Sea of Azov. Instead, billions in NATO gear lies in ruins in a place
now called Bradley Park. It is called that by the Ukrainians because it
contains so many bombed out Bradley fighting vehicles.

There is now a growing <a
href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2023/08/22/ukraines-army-is-running-out-of-men-to-recruit/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">concern</a> that the Ukrainian army is
running out of men and material to continue fighting. That speaks to the
horrific losses they have taken in this ill-fated counter-offensive, but
also the long toll of the war. As a result, Ukraine is stepping up
mobilization efforts. There are <a
href="https://europeanconservative.com/articles/news/ukraine-steps-up-mobilisation-efforts/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">rumors</a> that that Zelensky will call
for a full mobilization of Ukraine, which means that every available
male will be called to service and maybe even the females of military
age.

The one area where Ukraine has had some success is in the Black Sea,
where they have been using sea drones to harass Russian shipping. There
is speculation that they are using Romania to launch and control these
British made drones and maybe there are British contractors helping
them. American Reaper drones are also active in the Black Sea,
suggesting they help locate targets. Regardless, the Black Sea has
become a problem for the Russian navy and Russian shipping.

The question is what comes next. There are rumors that the Russians have
been plotting an offensive of their own. This may simply be echoes from
the Battle of Kursk, which took place eighty years ago in the same
location. In that battle, the Soviet army stood their ground against a
massive German offensive, then counter attacked, leading to one of the
biggest tank battles in history. The Russians are obsessed with their
history, so this may be the source of those rumors.

On the other hand, the Russians have been advancing along the northern
part of the line of contact, to the point where Ukraine has <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2023/08/10/europe/kupyansk-ukraine-evacuation-russia-intl/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">evacuated</a> the strategic city of
Kupyansk in the Kharkiv region. This has led to speculation that Russia
may be planning to capture Kharkiv city, which is the second largest
city in Ukraine. They could also swing south and cut off supply lines to
the Ukrainian army in the Donbas. The Russians supposedly have over
100,000 men in this area.

The other possibility is that the Ukrainians had to strip this area of
men and equipment in order to supply their offensive in the south. As a
result, the Russians are taking advantage of the situation to capture
these important transport hubs. In other words, they are simply filling
a void left by the Ukrainians, and it has nothing to do with their plans
for the fall and winter. Either way, the collapse of this part of the
Ukrainian lines supports the lack of manpower claims.

This leads to the topic of what comes next. As this phase of the war
reaches its end over the next few weeks, the ball will now be in the
court of the Russians, who have spent a year building up forces in
Ukraine. They could go on the offensive or simply continue to grind away
at the Ukrainian army. They could also begin to work on the Ukrainian
infrastructure as a way to weaken their resolve. Of course, a major
winter offensive is also a possibility.

There is also the question as to what the West does now that their great
Ukrainian counter-offensive narrative is in tatters. For now, they seem
to be contenting themselves with a blame game focused on the Ukrainians.
The neocons are blaming the Ukrainian general for not following their
orders, while the Pentagon is pointing the finger at Zelensky for
meddling in the military planning. Out of this will come a new
narrative, but its details remain a mystery at this point.

Then there is the election calendar. The Poles have elections is
October, which will be an interesting look at European public opinion.
There is no anti-war party in Poland to speak of, so it is going to be a
more subtle read on how the ruling party has managed the war to this
point. In June, the Germans have an election. The AfD is an anti-war
party and they have jumped in the polls. So much so that the German
government is threatening to ban the party entirely.

Of course, the American presidential election cycle has started. Robert
F. Kennedy Jr. is the anti-war option on the Democrat side. The regime
has banned any serious polling on him, but they must be worried as they
have pulled Bernie Sanders out of mothballs to <a
href="https://www.concordmonitor.com/Bernie-Sanders-returns-to-NH-Sununu-gives-advice-to-GOP-presidential-candidates-52067446"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">campaign</a> in New Hampshire. Then you
have Trump who is the enemy of the neocons and the military industrial
complex. His swarthy mini-me, Vivek Ramaswamy, has also taken a strong
anti-war position.

The bottom line is there is no path to victory for Ukraine. This phase
of the war which has gone on for close to a year makes that abundantly
clear. While the Ukraine army has fought heroically, they are outmanned
and outgunned. Now that the West is out of weapons to send to them and
Western domestic politics is about to take center stage, Ukraine will be
faced with some grim choices. The big question is how a Western defeat
plays out over the next year.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="FV9+KK+cY9ueKDVBVE2yKQ==cb7Pue6bmlhQ8nw5/WYDhdoUzNwjc/cz7ekiCyySK610VaLmc8s50t1M2j2zCSQu3Bv"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="c7mZyJCUCU/DWpa2CA2RWg==cb7xtVr5y3cGytvALhG9eKzf04jpQXF7ZY820/j9QJZwt8sDHfGh2NkJMgn5PSedfTu"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
