---
title: "Travelogue: Iceland"
date: "2023-11-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Travelogues
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31132"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31132"
---

An interesting clash of cultures can be observed when you travel from
Lagos to Reykjavik on Iceland Air. Baltimore-Washington airport is an
interesting scene from an anthropological perspective on a normal day.
If you want a glimpse of the future, spend time at the Iceland Air
terminal. You will see the highly complex social machine that is a
modern airport operated by people who are not very complex.

This was my first time on Iceland Air, at least I think so, but after a
while these airlines are seem the same. Prior trips to Iceland were on
WoW, the now defunct airline that put the weird into air travel. The
other carrier that I have used to Iceland is Aer Lingus, which used to
have Reykjavik as a hub. Maybe Iceland Air is a spinoff of that
operation as I did not see any Aer Lingus flights to Reykjavik.

Anyway, the line to check in was not too bad, but it still took forty
minutes to check my bag and get a boarding pass. They do not have the
kiosks like other airlines, but they have lots of diversity. That
created trouble at the gate as many people were allowed to take large
carry-on bags with them, which the airline prohibits. There were lots of
tense conversations at the gate as people were forced to check bags.

I was in line behind to enormous black women. They had with them
suitcases the size of my closet, which made some sense, given their
size. Those suitcases were in a neon leopard print, which matched their
outfits. When they reached the counter, the clerk gushed over their
matching outfits and luggage. I could not help but laugh thinking of the
reaction on the other end when they arrived in Iceland…

There is a strange aloofness to Icelandic women. They are stunningly
beautiful in a Tolkien sort of way. It is the fashion here for women to
use makeup to highlight their eyes, which come in a stunning variety of
colors. They put on a happy face when talking with you but you get the
sense that there is not a lot going on behind those beautiful eyes and
exotic looks. The lights are on but no one is home.

I experienced this in Sweden. I drove around the country and saw so many
stereotypical Swedish blonds it got a bit boring. The thing that I
started to notice was a weird dullness to them. I do not think it is
stupidity, but some sort of cultural thing that we do not have in
America. I got the sense that Swedish women think men are all slightly
ridiculous, so the dull facade is concealing laughter…

Iceland is one of the places I recommend to people looking for their
first trip abroad, just behind Ireland. Travel is always stressful, but
travel to a foreign land can be intimidating until you get the hang of
it. Ireland is the best first trip for Americans because it is the most
familiar to them. Everyone speaks English, they understand Americans and
they genuinely like American tourists.

Iceland is a good second choice. Everyone speaks English, even if it is
with an amusing accent, and they are efficient. Reykjavik airport is
great because it is logical and clearly marked and everything works as
expected. The rest of the country is the same, so a first-time traveler
will not be intimidated. That and the stunning natural weirdness of the
place makes for a great first experience abroad…

Iceland is a great test case for the HBD people. They used to write
about it a lot because it is a proof of concept. Take a group of people
and plop them down on a remote island and let nature take its course.
Icelanders are the most studied people on the planet, as their entire
population has been DNA tested. In a way, this volcanic island in the
North Atlantic is one big science experiment.

You can see this in the language. The people who settled the island
spoke Old Norse primarily, but some other people were in the mix. The
language then evolved into its current form, mostly due to the people
meeting at the Althing, which was something like a primitive parliament.
This allowed the language to evolve quickly, becoming distinct from
other Scandic languages, but also become the official language of the
island.

There is no point in you learning Icelandic, so if you decide to make
the trip here just learn how to say “thank you” and “pardon me.”
Learning how to say “thank you” in the local tongue solves most
problems. The rest can be solved by learning how to say “pardon me” so
you can ask for help. It shows the proper respect without annoying the
locals with your terrible version of their language…

It has been months since I have had a beer and I do not miss it. The
blood pressure is now stead at 100/70, so that is good. I did miss beer
on the flight. In the past, I would have a couple beers prior to
boarding the plane, so then I would sleep the whole way over the
Atlantic. Overnight planes are weird places when you are awake to see
what your fellow passengers are doing…

The blackwashing of ads we see in America has become a joke, but you
really noticed the absurdity of it abroad. At the airport I saw an ad
posted featuring a black guy and a Swedish looking woman. Iceland is a
tiny island filled with white people, but they have to do this stuff
anyway. You can be sure there are Icelandic women who think that the
real strength of Iceland is its diversity…

I was chatting with someone along the way who is a work at home person
now, so he is a work from the road person. There is a fair bit of that
now. In every airport you can hear people doing regular work sitting on
the floor of the terminal. I bring all of my work stuff with me when I
travel. A world run by rootless people doing their work over the
internet from wherever they happen to be at the time is going to have an
impact…

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="hfoyTVwcQW9JmKxSWvL4qg==cb7YjJb0oDXI4aURg4HTGoc8JA03iIQWmc4knPv76nALaaL79vTyAnzOKNuWhaMqLnj"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="URqk4ZQ7xfQhd2PZKLZwMA==cb7DADH9Y2nZfCBiMejMfXVqYwm8PhNTmwqrF25/KQotj2u+tvZyFpLFU9lU3l+1CTI"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
