---
title: "The Never Ending Fantasy"
date: "2023-04-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-04-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29766"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29766"
---

For months now, the collective West has been talking about the great
Ukrainian counter-offensive that is due any day now. This started when
they realized they were not going to talk the Russians into launching a
big winter offensive. Instead, the Russians kept grinding down the
Ukrainians at places like Bakhmut. When that became too obvious to
ignore, the West shifted to this new narrative. Western media now tells
us the great Ukrainian counter-offensive is <a
href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2023/04/19/ukraine-russia-war-latest-putin-kherson-zelensky-front-line/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">nigh</a>!

Woven into this new narrative are bits of an old narrative. For example,
there was talk of starting the counter-offensive early in order to send
a relieving force to Bakhmut, like the Allies did to relieve Bastogne
from the Germans. Instead, Ukraine just kept funneling troops and
equipment into a death trap. According to the leaked documents, assuming
they are real, tens of thousands of Ukrainians have died in Bakhmut,
while the Russians have suffered about a tenth of the losses.

It looks like we are now getting a new narrative structure in time for
the great Ukrainian counter-offensive and it is also from the Second
World War. This new narrative structure builds on the D-Day landings.
According to a <a
href="https://foreignpolicy.com/2023/04/18/ukraine-russia-war-counteroffensive-attack-bakhmut-himars/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> in Foreign Policy, Ukraine will
try to break through Russian defenses in the South in order to develop a
beachhead, from which they will then launch attacks into the Russian
rear. Those naked Russians armed only with shovels will panic and run
back to Moscow.

For those unfamiliar, the phrase “the longest day” comes from the 1962
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Longest_Day_(film)"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">war film</a> about the landings on Omaha
beach. Megastars of the day like Henry Fonda and John Wayne starred in
the film. The movie was based on a book that claimed to be a non-fiction
account of the landings. The reason for the title was that the landings
were a near-run thing that could have gone either way. If they failed,
it would have seriously harmed the allied war effort.

This is not the first time that Western narrative makers have plucked
material from American war films. The chatter about relief of the
Bakhmut defenders is the most recent example. Even though it did not
happen as the script demanded, it was a good story, so the narrative
makers are back at it with a new narrative plucked from the glory days
of the American empire. Never mind that the Nazis are not exactly the
bad guys in this telling of those old stories.

If this long discussed attack by Ukraine happens, it will go down as the
most bizarre military operation in history. The lesson lost from those
old military operations that are the basis of these new narratives is
that secrecy is key. The Allies did not spend months talking about the
invasion of France. They did not announce that they ordered Patton’s 3rd
Army to relieve the defenders of Bastogne. The world learned of these
events after they happened, not while they were planned.

This raises the possibility that this counter-offensive is just another
clever story for the so-called leaders of the collective. One reason the
West is running out of material for this war is they forced the
Ukrainians to mount a counterattack in the south last fall, in order to
provide material for their narrative. At that time, the story was the
Russians were in full retreat, so the narrative makers wanted some
content to use in support of their stories about the imminent collapse
of Russia.

Theatrically, it worked, but the Ukrainians lost tens of thousands of
men and much of their best equipment while attacking Russians defenses.
For their part, the Russians were willing to give up ground, as it
allowed them to pound the Ukrainians from a safe distance using their
superior artillery. From a military perspective, it was a disaster for
Ukraine, but it gave the narrative writers material. In this war of
attrition, the West continues to fight a meme war to win the internet.

This has been the case since the start of the war. Policy makers in the
collective West have spent as much time creating soothing stories for
the political class as they have planning and executing the actual war.
One of the things that comes through in this document leak story is that
policy makers do not have a handle on what is actually happening on the
ground. Again, the documents may not be real, but they fit a pattern of
ignorance that has been the subtext of this war.

This is a pattern that goes back much further. The war in Iraq followed
a similar arc as this proxy war with Russia. Back then, the narrative
makers told the politicians that the Iraqis would “welcome us a
liberators.” Many of the same people involved in that debacle are
involved in this one. They also got everything wrong about the
Afghanistan mission, as well as its ending. Of course, they deliberately
lied about the origins of ISIS, painting them as freedom fighters.

As with those prior debacles, the planners are so sure of their
preferred narrative that they never bother to think about updating it.
In Iraq, they were sure democracy would spontaneously break out any day.
In Syria, they were sure the Assad regime would collapse any day. They
are still sure of it. In Iran, they have been sure the mullahs are done
for going on half a century. Now they are sure Russia in on the verge of
collapse and nothing will change their mind.

The thing is reality never shakes their faith in their fantasy. The
failures in the Muslim world changed no minds in the collective West.
None of the planners were dragged into court and made to answer for
their lies and omissions. In each case, the dogs barked, and the caravan
moved on to the next manufactured crisis. We see the pattern repeating
with this proxy war on Russia. Being outlandishly wrong about events on
the ground brings no penalty to the people committing the blunders.

In the fullness of time, if there are people around interested and able
to write about this age, they may refer to this as the age of fantasy in
the West. Rather than tend to that which was bequeathed to them by their
ancestors, the West indulged in a series of fantasies that were
increasingly at odds with reality. In the end, they managed only to burn
through their inheritance, leaving the West in poverty. That may be the
good ending to this never-ending fantasy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="LB0yo3qxjEidLHwt1bhrjg==cb7ALHB9ik1zPKEacOTPBes5Feh5ie+OeycQJgtV2Aq7Uu+A0EmLlJEHfxqs8SxbsTD"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="38dYxPRfGpKzvEA7vjwzzQ==cb7ZsK01QIT54ZkpJfL8FQ21MnlIpQqnyImOKCte+RA6f0Bf9G/knSzUPw/8G8DusOI"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
