---
title: "Germany & Iceland"
date: "2023-11-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31143"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31143"
---

Iceland is famous for its weirdness, which it embraces not just as a
marketing campaign for tourism but as a way of living. Unlike the other
countries of Europe, it has a well-defined beginning. A Norwegian
chieftain named Ingólfur Arnarson and his wife, Hallveig Fróðadóttir
settled on the island in the ninth century. Others followed and slowly
the population built over time. Like early America, it is a deliberate
society created by a founding population.

No other country can tell an origin story like that. This had another
benefit in the weirdness department. This isolated population on a
volcanic island in the North Atlantic has been a treasure for
geneticists. The entire population has been tested and their DNA is in
the national database. We know more about the population of Iceland than
any population on the planet. This has allowed researchers to confirm
much of the origin story, except for the outlandish bits.

Speak with Icelanders and you find out that they are very familiar with
their story, but they do not spend a lot of time thinking about it. They
know the rest of the world finds this tiny island to be a great
curiosity. The tourism rackets now bring millions of people to Iceland
every year to gaze upon the weirdness. On the other hand, Iceland has
avoided the modern bug. They do not hate themselves. Instead, they have
a strong sense of identity but they do not think too much about it.

Contrast this with the Germans. Unlike tiny Iceland, the Germans have a
long history, but their origin story is not so clear. Like the rest of
the continent, the German people are a blend of many tribes that pushed
onto Europe. There is no Ingólfur Arnarson in the story of modern
Germany. In fact, Germany is the result of the transition from medieval
to modern, as what we think of as the modern state is a collection of
states that were at times independent and other times part of an empire.

Of course, a big part of the German identity is the events of the last
century, but everyone would just as soon forget about them. Modern
Germany is, in part, a giant outdoor museum populated by amnesiacs.
Everywhere you look there are reminders of the pre-20th century past.
Castles, amazing old villages, cathedrals, and reminders of the cultural
achievements of the German people. On the other hand, it is hard to find
any reminders of the 20th century.

One result of this is the German people have a strong identity, but they
have a difficult relationship with that identity. The laws against
mentioning you know who are not so much about you know who coming back
in vogue but as a way to anathematize any discussion of that period.
This is not a top-down thing. The average German would just as soon
forget about the past and embrace the present. In this regard, the
Germans are the most modern people in all of Europe.

This is not a terrible thing. Germany is in many ways the model European
country in that it strives to have a strong economy and a peaceful
society. Even after the waves of migrants were brought in by Merkel, it
remains a high trust society. It is not Japan, but it is not France or
Italy. Walk around a German city and you feel safe. You know where to go
and where not to go, but even where not to go is nothing like you see in
France or especially the United States.

In a way, Iceland and Germany are great examples of the modern. One has
become a fully modern society without going to war with itself, while
the other remains at war with itself as it embraces the modern. Both
societies are fully modern, materially, and spiritually, but they got
there by different routes. As a result, they both face the same problems
that now define the modern age. Those are collapsing TFR and an
unwillingness to honestly face up to the problem.

Whenever national leaders talk about fertility, they lay the blame on
their favorite bogeyman, rather than the real causes. This <a
href="https://english.hi.is/news/what_are_the_causes_of_decreasing_fertility_rates_in_iceland"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> from Iceland University is a
great example of blame shifting. They blame the socialist bogeymen of
the past, materialism, and individualism, then throw in a new one,
climate change. These are people who have lived on a volcano since they
were a people. If climate change were a big fear, they would have died
off long ago.

Germans just lie about the topic. They have one of the lowest fertility
rates in Europe, but they pretend it is getting better. This <a
href="https://www.reuters.com/world/births-slow-china-us-ex-laggard-germany-bucks-trend-2021-05-13/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> from the pandemic years is a
good example of the self-delusion. This was a popular narrative in
Europe. They were sure lockdowns would result in a baby boom, but when
that did not happen, they went about pretending that it happened anyway.
Of course, none of these countries report TFR by ethnicity as that would
give the game away.

What all this suggests is that it is not the past that haunts the modern
West, but the present that is the source of the crisis. Iceland embraces
its past and has a collapsing TFR just like Germany, which tries to
ignore its past. It should be noted that both societies are extremely
feminized. They reek of estrogen. Where that fits on the causal chain is
hard to say. What is not hard to figure is that in societies where girls
pretend to be boys, the girls do not grow up to be mothers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="wOgeyyHDw9bOVpDmOyqC7Q==cb7bGrRw/Bbi955O8NHcCfZ2M1n83xeHN5YJt68zfyuG+gKmFa7h+VPEEC8VTbUBHdq"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="iesu5JAaLuQrjfpJ5zXNEw==cb7F6Ggki0GG5uoxarTndnI4iSoui0UmX5vV/XKt2p+FNPhE13aM92ZhMXZL2DSqIra"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
