---
title: "Ron Versus Don"
date: "2023-03-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-03-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29555"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29555"
---

On social media, a mini-war has broken out between the pro-DeSantis
faction and the pro-Trump faction. An example of the former is Pedro
Gonzalez who spends his days on Twitter insulting Trump supporters. An
example of the latter is Scott Greer, who also spends his days in
Twitter, but insulting DeSantis people. Both may be paid “influencers”
but that is not entirely clear. The DeSantis people are mostly
anti-Trump people, while the Trump people are mostly pro-Trump.

That last bit is important. DeSantis has mostly attracted the on-line
influencers who feel insulted by Trump for some reason. Most were
superfans of Trump in 2016, doing the whole god-emperor thing, but then
soured on him for some reason. Ann Coulter is the queen of this crowd.
She now has the same enthusiasm for DeSantis as she had for Trump,
Romney, Christie and George Bush. If history is a guide, Queen Ann will
one day be trashing DeSantis on the Bill Maher show.

The basic argument from the DeSantis partisans is that he has a chance
to win the general election, while Trump has no chance. More important,
DeSantis knows how to govern, which he has proven in Florida. There is
no doubt that he has been a great governor for Florida. He also has a
very friendly state legislature, which makes it simple for him to get
things done. There is no data to suggest he has a better shot against
Biden than Trump, but that is the claim.

The truth is electability has never been a factor in these races. Most
voters are not like most Republican politicians in that they do not
negotiate with themselves. They vote for the candidate they like, not
the candidate that a conservative commentator swears will be acceptable
to the Democrats. Even if their preferred option has no chance in the
general, most voters will go for the guy who speaks to them. It turns
out that most people are decent and honest, not scheming weasels.

That is the argument for Trump. Despite his faults, and he has many, he
represents those decent and honest people. He is a symbol, more than a
candidate. Supporting Trump is about opposing the people who rule over
us. It is as close as we get in America to class warfare. Trump’s voters
are the great unwashed, the forgotten Americans who hate what has
happened to their country. Trump is not the solution, but he makes noise
on their behalf. That is enough.

Both camps are right in the same way that two people who have different
favorite ice creams are right, even though they disagree. There is no
empirical argument in favor of either guy as it is purely a matter of
opinion. Pedro Gonzales is mad at Trump for not being the savior he
hoped for in 2016, so he is has jumped on the DeSantis side, while Scott
Greer still loves Trump and now hates DeSantis. Their arguments in favor
of their guy are cognitively meaningless.

That said, we can assess the electability claim. The place to start is
the 2020 election broken out by electoral votes. All of those national
polls that people wave around are meaningless as we pick presidents by
indirect election. In the last election, Biden won 303 electoral votes,
while Trump got 235. The threshold to win is 270. There were a lot of
shenanigans in the 2020 election, but they were repeated in 2022, so we
have to treat them as a feature, rather than a bug.

[<img
src="https://www.270towin.com/map-images/2020-actual-electoral-map.png"
decoding="async" width="800" />](https://www.270towin.com/maps/2020-actual-electoral-map)

The next step in assessing the electability claim is to ask which states
are they mostly likely to flip into the Republican column. You can
quickly rule out WA, OR, CA, CO, NM, ME, VT, NH, MA, CT, RI, NY, NJ, DE,
MD, VA, HI and IL. That leaves NV, AZ, MN, WI, MI, PA and GA. There are
eighty-seven electors in those states. A Republican will need to flip
some combination of states to gain thirty-five electors. He will also
have to hold the states that Trump won in 2020.

The state most likely to flip is Georgia. The Republican Party there has
started to figure out what is happening to them and they have adjusted.
The 2022 election was a small wake up call for the white vote in the
state. That gets the Republicans halfway to their goal, but then things
get dicey. Arizona and Nevada appear to be fortified for democracy now,
as we saw in the 2022 election. Pennsylvania, of course, is heavily
fortified for democracy, as we saw in the Fetterman race.

This means a Republican will need to win Michigan or Minnesota and
Wisconsin, something has not been done in generations. In 2016, Trump
won Michigan and Wisconsin, but lost Minnesota. It was close, so it
cannot be ruled out entirely, but it is not the way to bet.
Realistically, the only path to victory for the Republicans is to take
back Georgia and then win Michigan, but they will still be short four
electoral votes, so they have to focus on one other state as well.

What this tells us is the odds for a Republican win are awfully long.
They have to win states that are mostly in the other camp by default.
Then they have to defend their own states, some of which are trending
the wrong way. The Yankee invasion of North Carolina is turning the
state into Virginia. Texas is slowly becoming California as those
weirdos arrive in droves. Barring some sort of black swan event, Joe
Biden will cruise to victory in 2024 no matter his opponent.

What this says is that the choice for Republicans is not centered on
electability, but who they prefer to see lose in 2024. The neocons and
conservatives prefer to see Trump lose, but they are so full of hatred
of white people now, they will root against him in the primary, even if
it works against their interests. The DeSantis fans are coming around to
the same view, thinking that Trump is some sort of bad juju that must be
exorcised in order to return to the 1980’s.

For dissidents, it is a different question. DeSantis is a good governor
and it would be better if he finished the job and set an example for
others. We do not need another too nice to win loser presidential
candidate. Trump is a crazy man who sends the bad guys into paroxysms of
vengeful hysteria. He was a lousy president, but he has proven to be a
great wrecking ball. His revenge tour, especially if he is indicted,
will be the mother of all crap shows. A good time will be had by all.

On the other hand, DeSantis losing the general after the party swore he
was better than Trump, discredits the whole process and drives home the
point that we live in a one party system now. Many will assume that he
was the victim of more democracy fortification, while others will read
the map, analyze the demographics and see that there is no path forward
in the current system. Reasonable Ron losing could be worse for the
system than Demonic Don losing again.

In the end, it is probably a coin flip. Those who have yet to wake up to
the present reality will place their hopes according to their desires.
To paraphrase the American transcendentalist Theodore Parker, we should
not pretend to fully comprehend the political universe, because the arc
of history is long. We can only see a bit of it and make calculations
accordingly. While the arc of liberal democracy is long, we can be sure
that it bends towards civilizational disaster.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Wc53GREiXa6l+10sBWuZLA==cb7w507GrluCIr0Hx1JPwrrMp1VJVf0MtT3TU075kRLF1O8a0eBWbB0kMaS7Cng+oKh"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="l3zVH2kPsxsuoKOSMTFRgQ==cb7WH1kuHPpurKvpMWAhN1Bjy+kPw6+cxcSUvssjOiDkXOOignD3FCFXpbHLj5YK2dd"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
