---
title: "Doomsday Approaches"
date: "2023-02-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-02-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29268"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29268"
---

The shadow that has hung over the Ukraine war is the fear that it could
lead to a direct clash between Washington and Moscow. Given that both
sides have large arsenals of nuclear weapons, conflict could lead to
Armageddon. Compounding things is the fact that Biden cannot stop
talking about nuclear war. Given his mental condition, this suggests
that he is often in earshot of the decision makers, who may be seriously
discussing the possible use of nuclear weapons.

The dynamic of the war thus far has been Washington poking Moscow hoping
for a response, which it can use to justify escalation. First, they said
that they would not supply Ukraine with Western weapons, then they sent
Western weapons. Then it was long range guided missiles. Now we see
modern tanks being prepped, with discussions about F-16 fighter jets on
the agenda. All of these weapons transfers are intended to provoke a
response from Moscow.

The proof of that is the fact that none of these systems can make a
difference on the battlefield for a number of reasons. The biggest
reason is that the West has designed its weapons to be used in combined
arms warfare. Alone, these weapons are not terribly useful and may even
be a hinderance to the Ukrainians. The M777 howitzer, for example, is
known for being maintenance heavy. Giving the Ukrainians these weapons
just adds to their onerous sustainment burden.

Of course, the “cry out in pain as you strike” tactic is the regime
default. This is used domestically and internationally. It goes back a
long time. In his ongoing criticism of Washington with regards to the
war in Ukraine, Douglas Macgregor likes to remind people that the
Roosevelt administration did everything it could to bait the Japanese
into launching an attack on American assets. They needed a reason to get
into the war and that was viewed as the best avenue.

When you combine the psychological instability of the people running the
war for the regime and the long history of provoking adversaries, the
prospects of a nuclear holocaust start to look better or worse,
depending upon your perspective. If the usual suspects stick to their
usual patterns, it means they will keep provoking the Russians until
they get the desired response. That desired response will justify some
further provocation eventually leading to all out war.

The first question to answer here is what response from Russia would
warrant a direct attack on Russia by NATO? The obvious answer is an
attack on NATO. This is why the Poles rushed to the nearest microphone
demanding war with Russia when the Ukrainian missile landed on Polish
territory. The Polish president knew the plan and assumed it was go
time. It turned out to be a Ukrainian missile, but the incident
confirmed the thinking within the West.

Assuming the Kagan cult has concluded they need a Russian attack on a
NATO country in order to launch their nuclear war, what would the West
have to do in order to provoke such an attack by the Russians? That is
turning out to be a tough question to answer, given what the West has
done thus far. Russian people have been attacked in NATO countries like
Estonia. Russian assets have been seized. The West even engineered the
[assassination](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-62621509) of
Alexander Dugan’s daughter.

Over the last year, the West has done a number of things that would
justify a response, but so far the Russians have been careful to avoid
the trap. The closest they have come to a direct retaliation was the
missile barrage after the Brits set off the truck bomb on the Kerch
Bridge in the Crimea. Given that the missile attacks on the Ukrainian
power grid have continued, that may have been a coincidence. The missile
barrage would have required advanced planning.

The fact is time is on Russia’s side and they know it. Every day this
war goes on drains the West of vital resources. The Pentagon is already
making noises about the Ukraine war harming its ability to deal with
China. The war has also exposed the fact that Europe has let its
militaries and arms production go to seed. Germany, France and Britain
no longer have a military for all practical purposes. It will take them
[years](https://www.thenationalnews.com/world/uk-news/2022/06/22/britain-needs-up-to-a-decade-to-modernise-its-army/)
to fix the problems, even if they find the will to do so.

If the Russian have a very high tolerance for provocation, then the
question flips around to the other side. What limit is there in
Washington? Where is the line that the people running policy in the
Biden will not cross? Given that regime players have been [gleefully
talking](https://archive.is/XB7tP) about “de-colonizing Russia” for the
last year, it is hard to imagine a red line that they would not dare
cross. If you are bragging about your plans to regime change Russia, you
probably have no red lines.

Now, there is another angle here. This could all be the result of a
bluff that has badly backfired on Washington. The initial taunts before
the war were not intended to bait the Russians into launching their
operation, but were a bluff. The subsequent economic sanctions and arms
shipments were a further bluff. Washington was telling Moscow that they
were in it for the long haul and would stuff Ukraine with arms. The hope
was that Moscow would reconsider and retreat.

It is entirely possible that the Global American Empire is facing a
catastrophe in Ukraine because the Russians called their bluff. It is
also possible that the Russia misread the signals coming from the West.
Given the mistakes they made early in the war, it could simply be the
Russians read things the wrong way. They not only did not see it as a
direct threat to intervene, they assumed it was just the usual hot air.
One side was bluffing while the other side did not see the bluff.

Either way, once things got going the regime seems to have fallen into a
form of the sunk cost fallacy.  They invest in new bluffing strategies
in order to save the investment in the previous failed bluffing
strategy. At this point, the Russians know the limitations of the West
in terms of time and material. The huffing and puffing from the West is
seen as a bluff, one that can easily be ignored. Will Washington accept
this reality or pivot to some desperate action?

That last question could decide the fate of the world. At this point it
is clear that the Ukrainians cannot win. The death toll is staggering.
The Russians cannot be bluffed or bullied, so what does Washington do
next? Do they try one last desperate attempt to provoke the Russians
into something foolish? Are there any sane people left in Washington who
can step in and stop this madness? The fate of the world may rest on the
mental stability of the crazies who started the war.

Regardless, it appears that the neocon scheme to de-colonize Russia is
reaching a denouement in the coming months. Ukraine is running out of
men to throw into the meat grinder and the West is running out of
machines. The war will end in 2023, but how it ends is the question. Can
Washington find some way to strike a deal with Russia that Russia will
accept? Have the Russians concluded that no deal can be made with such
untrustworthy people? We will know soon.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="nNXurSQgiYWJI8XufiE/Ew==cb75AiNKYsh3cyHlcNq4XcPq+SgMz0BVHP0CSW5PSst6v0aJkUuBpgmE4Cik/xiaaNk"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="FfZVyFmav8zzt8hGkgTOiA==cb7uhvWy+j/DOluQHQ4bmZOQ487Sxjnqm43PJvqncJElJdrGwcPxXDfbEwcPgu12Hgl"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
