---
title: "The Reality Of Model Dependent Reality"
date: "2023-06-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-06-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30084"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30084"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about what is happening with
the war in the Ukraine, a post about the *The Sound of Music* and the
Sunday podcast. You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note:** American Renaissance is having its annual conference in August
at the usual location in Tennessee. It is a great event and anyone who
is interested in the sort of politics discussed here should make it
there at least once. You can sign up for the event at the American
Renaissance
<a href="https://www.amren.com/2023-american-renaissance-conference/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">website</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One line of attack against various forms of socialism has been that
these organizational models run contrary to human nature. Humans
naturally want to keep the produce of their labor, so any system that
requires them to give over their labor to the whole is going to require
a great deal of force to implement. Similarly, humans are not equal in
ability, so there will always be unequal outcomes. A system that
supposes no one is in charge and everyone is equal is unnatural.

Libertarianism has a similar problem. Like communism, it assumes things
about humans that are not true. This is why there are no libertarian
societies. As Hans Hermann-Hoppe observed, there is no way to go from
the present to a libertarian society within the rules of libertarianism.
More important, there is no way to maintain a libertarian society within
the rules of libertarianism. Like communism, libertarians imagine a
world that is odds with the human condition.

In both cases, what we see is a clash between the model-dependent
reality of the ideology and reality itself. It is not hard to imagine a
society that operates by the sorts of rules the ideologue prefers. The
trouble comes when you try to implement the scheme on flesh and blood
human beings. As with every model, there are going to be things the
model must ignore in order to make sense. In real life, the things that
exist outside the model tend to land in a death camp.

It is becoming clear that liberalism, as in Western liberalism or
liberal democracy, has the same problem as communism and libertarianism.
That is the model makes perfect sense and answers the main problems of
human organization. In reality it falls prey to what the other great
ideologies have found impossible to address. That is, it requires things
from human beings that do not come naturally to man. Like those other
models, the only available solution is coercion.

The madness that is gripping the West can be viewed from two angles. One
is that the system has been taken over by spiteful mutants who exist to
trample the underlying assumptions of the liberal order. These are the
people who intrude in on your private space and tell you how to live and
think. They also seek control of the common space in order to impose
increasingly deranged rules on society. These people are overrunning the
liberal democracies of the West.

What this tells us is that the model does not contain within it the
tools to defend itself against these people. While the current madness
is novel in many respects, it is part of a wave that began long ago. You
can draw a line from the abolitionist fanatics to the pride parades of
this age. All along the way, liberalism has had no way to defend itself
against these people. For that matter, it had no way of dealing with
communists and fascists, other than extreme illiberal violence.

The other way of looking at this problem is that something within the
liberal order cultivates the spiteful mutant. Perhaps as Ed Dutton has
proposed, scarcity requires a firm hand on the spiteful mutant. They
must either be controlled or culled from the population, which keeps
their numbers and influence at a minimum. Liberalism results in material
excess, which in turn eliminates the apparent need to control the
spiteful mutants and so they multiply like rabbits.

A simpler answer is that the liberal model is lacking something that is
critical to understanding the human condition and human organization.
Like communism, not accounting for an essential bit of reality leaves a
choice. You either change the model or you change reality. As anyone who
has worked with model makers will tell you, the model maker is like God
in that he loves his creation and will do anything to preserver it, no
matter how terrible it seems.

In this long <a
href="https://www.nationalaffairs.com/publications/detail/conservatism-and-the-common-good"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> in defense of liberalism and
conventional conservatism, Harvey Mansfield provides a clue to the
problem. He writes that the goal of liberalism is a society where no one
is in charge in the sense that anyone is compelling anyone else to
sacrifice for the common good. The liberal model of reality “yields a
fundamental right to consent that protects all other rights from
infringement by rulers.” In other words, human society is purely
voluntary.

Therein lies the two critical flaws in the liberal model. The first and
most obvious is that it assumes a human society of equals. No one is in
charge because no one can compel another to act either against his own
interests or in the common good. This not only flies in the face of
observable reality, but it contradicts the point of society. Human
beings organize into groups for more than material benefit. The group
provides structure to the individual identity, which provides a
rationality to existence.

Human organizations possess properties not present in the members. The
most obvious is culture. Just as individual atoms do not possess
temperature, individual humans do not possess culture. Temperature is
the product of atoms interacting with one another. Similarly, culture is
the product of humans interacting with one another, not just in real
time, but over generations. In other words, essential to what makes us
who we are and our lives worth living is *our people*.

As Mansfield explains in his post, liberalism does not account for this
bit of reality and instead substitutes what amounts to magic. The
private and public choices of the members will magically address the
common good. The decisions of members in their private deliberations and
ad hoc public choices will somehow result in conditions that preserve
the society. As with other models of human reality, liberalism
inevitably falls back on magic to solve its problems.

The other critical flaw is the assumption that a society in which no one
is compelled to act in the public good is possible or even desirable.
The reason communist systems failed is they finally accepted a truth of
the human condition. That is, human societies are always hierarchical.
Whether it is the party, the ruling class or the aristocracy, a group of
people will rule over the rest. What reality tells us is that coercion
is just as much a part of the human condition as left-handedness.

This is why Western liberalism looks a lot like communism in practice.
On the one hand, the model requires everyone to pretend that no one is
in charge, and everyone is voluntarily submitting to the rules. On the
other hand, a model-dependent elite is making the rules and ruthlessly
imposing them on the whole. As with communism, the “good of society” is
easily confused with the good of the ruling elite. Instead of abandoning
the model, the ruling class works around the flaws.

The liberal model of society is failing because like all models it
leaves out the bits of reality that make the model messy or impossible.
On the one hand, it has no defense against the illiberal tyrants that
are multiplying like rabbits. On the other hand, it lacks a method to
compel members of society to act in the common good or to even conceive
of a common good. As a result, the liberal model is leading to the
destruction of the people who conceived it.

Finally, the growing similarities between the liberal model and the
communist model are rooted in two common assumptions. The first
assumption is that the point of human organization is the liberation of
the individual. This means freedom from political coercion, as in an
aristocracy, freedom from economic coercion, as Marx explained and now
freedom from cultural coercion, as we see with our woke rulers. None of
this is ever explained or justified. It is simply assumed to be true.

The other assumption is that these models must never be opposed. It is
why the great champions of communism and liberalism sound more like
religious fanatics than reasonable advocates. Once one accepts the moral
claims about human freedom, one is compelled to attack anyone who
questions these moral claims, as to do otherwise suggests doubt. If you
accept that maybe liberation is not the point of society, these models
fall apart and take their champions with them.

In the end, the answer to the flaws of model-dependent reality is
reality. Once one accepts the reality of human organization, the
political models fade away and what you are left with is an
understanding that human society is only possible when the members feel
a duty to maintain it and defend it. Anything or anyone which undermines
this primary mission must be removed from society. In other words, the
point of human society is to preserve itself and thereby preserve the
members.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="AqGaDM6mtMdOySkBotyfTg==cb7qTufeA0DKADn0RmjQUPRRtsNyxi/W+2OP8MML/8Ew5hPKeyZTs2Wb4Vtodw1Jibt"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="i19UB1uuo0IglTypszqOAw==cb7NaZIi86iI3drRziEzHISlSFBNrm2O0Map0y3Cpl6YxDQSqlrdWq7DxbpLABlDnOT"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
