---
title: "The Terrifying Narrative"
date: "2023-06-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-06-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30098"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30098"
---

**Note:** American Renaissance is having its annual conference in August
at the usual location in Tennessee. It is a great event and anyone who
is interested in the sort of politics discussed here should make it
there at least once. You can sign up for the event at the American
Renaissance
<a href="https://www.amren.com/2023-american-renaissance-conference/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">website</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Depending upon who is doing the reporting, the great Ukrainian
counter-offensive is now entering its second week, or the
pre-counter-offensive probing maneuver is winding down in preparation
for the long-awaited counter-offensive. However, it is described, the
Ukrainians are conducting largescale offensive operations at several
places using the Western armor. We know this because of the images of
German Leopard tanks on fire that we are seeing online.

It is far too early to draw any conclusions about the success or lack of
success of this new operation, but it is clear that we are seeing
another example of how Western leaders came to believe the narratives
they created in the information war. This is an increasing phenomenon
where the information production centers of the managerial class create
narratives so compelling that the managerial elite confuses these
manufactured realities with genuine reality.

In this case, the manufactured reality said that the Russian defensive
lines were undermanned and under supplied. Despite the daily display of
firepower, the Russians are running out of everything. On top of that,
morale in the Russian ranks is low due to the fact the Russian army is
composed of conscripted peasants. The narrative that evolved over the
last six months of hyping the offensive is that as soon as Western tanks
appeared, the Russians would scatter.

This explains why the Ukrainians used the most advanced armor in their
assault on Russians lines in the south. The images of destroyed Leopard
2 tanks, Bradley Fighting Vehicles and Finnish mine clearly tanks that
have been all over the internet the last week tell the story. This
frontal assault with the best Western equipment was supposed to be a
promotional vehicle for the benefits of arming Ukraine with the weapons
it needs to drive the Russians all the way back to Moscow.

What happened instead was a disaster for Ukraine. In the south, they
launched attacks on three areas, all of which got bogged down in
minefields. As the Ukrainians tried to maneuver out of the minefields,
the Russians attacked them with Lancet drones, KA-52 attack helicopters
and artillery. Depending upon who is telling the story, Ukraine has
already lost between fifteen and thirty percent of its Western armor and
has yet to reach the first line of Russian defenses.

If we accept the Western number as fifteen percent, it is clear that
these offensive operations will have a short duration. Keep in mind that
the action so far has happened in the security zone of Russian defenses.
This is the extreme outer layer used to detect how the enemy is
approaching. Ukraine has yet to penetrate this area, which is lightly
defended relative to the proper defensive lines. In order to reach the
defensive lines, it means suffering massive losses in men and material.

What is remarkable about this is that the United States has spy
satellites positioned over Ukraine. They have been providing Ukraine
with intelligence from satellites for over a year. NATO has been
providing targeting information along with the guided munitions they
supply Ukraine. The United States operates the Global Hawk surveillance
drone over the Black Sea. In other words, the West has been watching the
Russians build their lines in real-time for months.

Despite what they clearly see happening, the narrative prevails. You see
it in this detailed <a
href="https://www.csis.org/analysis/ukraines-offensive-operations-shifting-offense-defense-balance"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">report</a> from the Center for Strategic
and International Studies. It goes into great detail about Russian
defensive preparations. Woven throughout the report, however, is the
familiar talking points about the inferiority of Russian equipment and
the condition of the Russian military. When asked who they believe? The
official narrative or their lying eyes, the writers chose the former.

That is the important part about understanding the power of narrative
within the Western managerial elite. Disconfirmation is always met with
an organized effort to force the contrary information onto the
narrative. Maybe the narrative is tweaked to account for the new data,
but the final chapter never changes. The good guys always win in the end
and the West is always the good guys. After all, the lesson of history
is that the good guys always win.

What we see happening is the narrative makers are converting the results
on the battlefield into a new chapter of the story. In this chapter, the
West <a
href="https://www.aei.org/op-eds/can-biden-deter-a-russia-nuclear-attack-on-ukraine-yes-if-he-gives-ukraine-tactical-nukes/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">supplies</a> Ukraine with nuclear
weapons. Note that this is cast as a defensive action. The superpower
cries out in pain as it supplies Russia’s opponent with nukes. Note also
that this policy paper is not produced by a random crank. AEI is one of
the most influential and well-funded think tanks in Washington.

If that is not terrifying enough for you, there is now talk of letting
NATO members “voluntarily” send troops into Ukraine. The Poles have
already sent thousands of volunteers, but now there is talk of bring the
Baltic states into the mix. The idea is to provide F-16 fighter jets
with Western trained pilots from the eastern members of NATO in order to
provide air cover for Ukrainian offensives. After all, the Russian army
is ready to collapse so they just need one final push.

One of the enduring mysteries of the Great War is how the rulers on both
sides kept at it despite the obvious futility of the war. Both sides
remained convinced that the other was running on fumes. All they needed
to do was keep up the pressure and the other side would eventually
crack. They were right, in that the Germans did eventually crack, but
not until the continent was reduced to rubble. Imagine if both sides
even had crude nuclear weapons. That is where we are now.

That is the terrifying part of this war. Western leaders have become
immune to reality, so they embrace narratives produced by people with
their own interests. The neocons want to blow up the world. The military
industrial complex wants to keep selling expensive weapons. The
Ukrainian dictator needs the war to keep going in order to avoid
assassination. Everyone involved has a reason to believe the narrative
over their lying eyes, so reality remains on the sidelines.

The hope is that events on the ground will reach a point where the
remaining sane people in power feel they must step in and stop the
madness, but this Ukrainian offensive suggest reality is no match for a
good story. Western managerial elites have evolved to the point where
they now live in a world of their own creation. It is not hard to
imagine them standing in front of a window with VR goggles strapped to
their faces as a mushroom cloud forms on the horizon.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="KKFHmm+kUmZHKcDJ/MH4ow==cb7/fLRtN35z2Wqal9C1nRB9sUCuMlu0SJ9Zxl6KnK+o7g+gCEzRBAwHNRVcWcxdCJz"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="nMO4cerWP8l7Ij+4EiVr5Q==cb7ca0+K/UD0PqHcbUxFezk2qx8LaQI2Va/b7CULATnJ92oBPbgkojeMz9/JkXRwrB2"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
