---
title: "The Road To Renewal"
date: "2023-04-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-04-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29622"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29622"
---

Imagine a candidate for president who was a popular governor of a big
state with an impressive list of accomplishments. He cut taxes, took on
the education rackets, ended affirmative action in state hiring, cut
government jobs. On top of that he was a cutting edge leader in the
fight to defend your right to bear arms. In the present crisis, you
might say such a candidate would be a blessed relief. That is the sort
of guy the system needs right now to restore order!

Of course, that governor was <a
href="https://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/news/elections/presidential/caucus/2015/03/05/jeb-bush-record-florida-governor/24473497/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Jeb Bush</a>. It has been a long time
since anyone had a reason to care about Jeb. Most people now remember
him for meekly saying “please clap” at a New Hampshire campaign event.
It could also be Scott Walker, the former governor of Wisconsin, who
also flamed out in 2016. For that matter, it could also be George W.
Bush, who had a solid run as governor of Texas. He turned out to be the
worst president in American history.

Those old enough to remember the Cold War will also remember when people
said that the best candidates were governors or generals. The reason was
that they had real world experience managing large complex
organizations. As candidate, they could speak to people with an air of
authority. Legislators, in contrast, always sound like members of
committee. Governors, of course, had practice working with legislatures
as an executive, which is good training for president.

People no longer think governors are good candidates. In the 2016
primary, Trump had little trouble with the governors. Ted Cruz and Marco
Rubio, both sitting senators, gave him the most trouble. In this cycle
the governors will have a tough time of it if they manage to even get
out of the gate. DeSantis is the only one with any traction and he is
more of a meme right now than a real candidate. Given what is happening,
he may do the smart thing and not bother to run.

The reason that governors have lost their appeal is that the voters
liked governors when the big issues were not in question. During the
Cold War, there was a ruling consensus that controlled both factions of
Washington. They agreed on the big things, but disagreed a tiny bit on
the small things. Therefore, the standard for president was someone who
could be a steady hand on the tiller. The ship was mostly fine and the
course was decided. We just needed a good captain.

When the Cold War ended, that consensus ended too. There was a void at
the center of American politics, so people were left to cast around for
someone to fill it. Bill Clinton was the new generation, the embodiment
of the Kennedy quote. Then it was George Bush with his new brand of
conservatism, which quickly turned into a messianic vision for
reordering the world. Then we got Obama and his post-racial message,
which ended with the beginnings of a race war.

This is why Trump won in 2016 and why Biden won in 2020. Trump came to
symbolize the frustrations of white people after two decades of abuse by
elites. He was a clenched fist aimed at the jaw of Washington. Biden, of
course, was the answer, a moral nullity, as well as a husk of man. He
was selected by Washington because he was the best defense against the
mobs and their Trump fist. In both cases, the candidates were merely
instruments, rather than genuine candidates.

It is why DeSantis has no chance against Trump. A moderate Republican
governor with a solidly conservative record would have been ideal in
1992. He may have been a good choice in 2012. After all, Romney came
close to knocking off Obama. In this age of madness, no one is looking
for the steady hand, because the ship is on fire and being boarded by
savages. What people want is a warrior that strikes fear in the heart of
the enemy, even if they do not realize it.

Donald Trump, of course, is not that warrior. He has always been a civic
nationalist, who trusts the system. Events, however, have cast him in
the role, which is why he has struggled to find his footing. On the one
hand, his supporters want him to burn it all down and on the other hand,
his opponents act like he is trying to burn it all down, while he is
desperately trying to make a deal to keep it from burning down. He
bounces between the two poles, enraging both camps.

Men who have been to prison say that they became different men at the
moment they heard the cell door close the first time. Anyone who has
been inside a courtroom knows that even with the best results, it is a
transformative experience. You are subjected to the pure power of the
state. It is where the power of the state is clear. One has to wonder if
Donald Trump, standing in a Manhattan courtroom today, facing life in
prison, will have such a transformation.

Even if he is too old to see it or too afraid to acknowledge it, the
spectacle itself is opening the eyes of many people. This is not about
Trump, but about a system that no longer works as intended. Instead, it
has become a weapon in the hands of bitter, deranged fanatics. A system
that can so easily be perverted to destructive ends is no longer worth
defending. That is the new consensus forming up as we see the system
destroy itself in these rage panics.

It is tempting to dismiss it, but look at the comments in this Army
[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DhzhmATrlrA). The strongest
supporters of the military now fill the comments with derogatory
messages. Sure, many of those negative comments are probably from
goofballs with free time, but most are normal people stating what is now
said among white people every day. The last trusted institution is now
an object of ridicule. The core support for the military is now in
collapse, because the system itself is in collapse.

The lesson of 2016 was that the time for moderate men with moderate
views like Jeb Bush or Scott Walker had passed. The end of the Cold War
brought the end to the Cold War political consensus. What is needed is a
new consensus and that is made by immoderate men. If that fails, then it
is made by those who survive the even less moderate mobs who clear the
field of the moderate men. Today’s events are just another step along
that path.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="HFqjiu0fJo9QPNDxnM/XAg==cb71ICkjzk2nL05YqSY/fj+TpYy0d49EzKp1oH43s/YeNQ5XTpyk8CUy+f/M+gEVTgu"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="IoOrnrz2nd7mvMWivQoDbw==cb7MIQSa+e4EMVCGY8ETKuFm2cY1K27TDyERdaPzaQkjUgqSd1iVZ6NfkHmjUa2DA0R"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
