---
title: "The Spirit Of The Law"
date: "2023-09-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Religion
  - The Law
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30678"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30678"
---

In the Charles Dickens novel *Oliver Twist*, Mr. Bumble is told by the
court that the law assumes his wife acts under his direction. Mr. Bumble
responds with, “If the law supposes that, the law is a ass – a idiot”.
The ass in this case is the donkey, an animal known for its obstinance.
Over time the expression has been used to point out that the letter of
the law can not only contradict the spirit of the law, but the law
itself can contradict common sense and objective reality.

The more important point here though is that the law is an effort to
formalize the commonly held moral code, a set of rules that determine
what members of a society ought to do and ought not to do. It is not the
moral code itself, but an effort to write it down on paper so it is
clear to everyone. Fundamental to most ethical systems is the assertion
that ignorance of the law is no excuse. You need to know the rules,
which is why they are written down so that you can know them.

Despite the law seeming to be an ass, there is a logic to the law. That
logic, like all systems, starts from some foundational items. These are
the things that everyone in the law assumed to be true. For example, the
Bill of Rights is supposed to be a list of starting points for
understanding the limits of government. These are not supposed to be up
for debate. As far as the law is supposed to be concerned, these are
settled truths that cannot be challenged or violated.

This gets to an important point. Every system of oughts, the list of
things you ought to do and the things you ought not do, begins with a
set of eternal truths that rest on a recognized authority. Christians
are free to eat pork because they do not recognize the moral authority
of the Muslims and Jews. The prohibition against eating pork rests on
the moral authority of those two religions. It is not an objective
truth, but a subjective one that works only when you accept it.

The law is a system of oughts and therefore assumes an authority and
that authority is supposed to be the Constitution but also tradition as
expressed through precedent or the accumulation of court decisions. The
Constitution is the starting point for what we all agree is the system
of oughts. Precedent is the accumulated decisions over time on the
things that were not expressly covered in the Constitution. Combined
this makes up the system of oughts that define the morality of our
society.

That last bit is what is often missed. Once something is formally put on
the list of things you ought not do, it quickly becomes part of the
informal list of taboos. The reason for this is that we naturally assume
that in a democratic society the law reflects not only the general will
but general morality. If the law says it is not allowed, it must mean
that it is outside of that which is morally acceptable. In other words,
once the court makes it against the law, it quickly becomes immoral.

An obvious example of this in action is homosexual marriage. Up until a
few years ago people understood that marriage was about creating
children. Since nature dictates how this is done, marriage must be one
man and one woman. Then one day some people decided that the laws of
nature are up for debate. Two men, it was argued, could be married,
despite the biological impossibility of it. This group remained a
ridiculous minority until they were able to get the courts to side with
them.

In the blink of an eye, the issue of homosexual marriage went from
absurd poke in the eye of Mother Nature to settled moral principle.
Conservatives who opposed the idea then suddenly defended it. Even
social conservatives have dropped their public opposition to homosexual
marriage. You can see the change in moral attitudes in the <a
href="https://www.pewresearch.org/religion/fact-sheet/changing-attitudes-on-gay-marriage/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">polling</a> on the issue. This absurd
mockery of the laws of nature became part of the accepted moral code
with the stroke of a judge’s pen.

Another example is the Brown decision.
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30243" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Central</a> to the jihad against white people in this
age are the novel moral principles invented by the court. In fact, the
court not only created two new moral claims, but made those the
controlling principles, superseding even those items written in the
Constitution itself. As a result, the constitutional order went from a
system of limits on government power to a system of demands on the white
population of the country.

The same process is happening with the Bostock decision. In this case a
majority of the justices agreed that discriminating against men
pretending to be women so they can beat up girls on the soccer field is
a form of sexual discrimination and therefore violates the Civil Rights
Act of 1964. As Harvard professor Adrian Vermeule <a
href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2023/08/22/supreme-courts-transgender-revolution-is-warping-the-law/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">points</a> out, this is a ridiculous
claim on its face, but it also opens the door for adding yet another
novel principle to the legal order.

As we have seen with other novelties from the court, it will not be long
before this one sinks into the moral fabric of society. If you do not
want your daughters pulverized by burly men in sundresses on the ball
field, you will be shunned from polite society or maybe even suffer
legal persecution. The fact that the Bostock decision was written by a
so-called conservative judge, one anointed by the allegedly conservative
Federalist Society and appointed by Trump is critical.

We used to worry about putting Catholics on the bench because it was
assumed they would operate from Catholic morality, rather than the
morality of high church Protestantism that informed the political order.
It was assumed that judges were like all men, and they would operate
from within a moral framework, formally expressed through organized
religion until recent times. Catholics had Catholic morality, while
Episcopalians had Anglican morality.

In other words, the text of the Constitution and the traditions and
precedents that informed it were based on a moral framework that existed
outside of it. The political system was founded by and for people who
assumed a moral order based in high church Protestantism. It did not
prohibit men dressed as women from beating up girls on the ball fields
because no Christian people would ever conceive of such a thing, much
less tolerate advocacy for it.

Once that morale framework was removed from the system, the
Constitutional order was left without a moral foundation. It no longer
had moral authority on which to rest the list of things members of
society ought to do and ought not do. The political system was left to
conjure one to replace it. The Brown decision and now Bostock rest on
the moral authority of the new religion that has evolved since the
middle of the last century, which promises salvation through universal
liberation.

In the end, the law is a formalization of the moral code of a society.
That moral code reflects the identity of the people who rule society.
The foundation of which is either something outside of the human
condition like the gods or the collective identity of the people who
control society. Once the American ruling class abandoned Christianity
as the moral foundation, it eventually settled on the collective
identity of the ruling elite that emerged in the middle of the last
century.

The trouble is, that ruling elite cannot settle on an exclusive identity
as it is a hodgepodge of people from various tribes. Exclusivity
therefore runs counter to their shared reality, so their new identity is
the Open Society. It is a polite fiction but all ethical codes contain
polite fictions. The new ruling elite is every bit as exclusive and
discriminating as any ruling elite, it is just that they assume their
calling is to usher in the Open Society, a world of free of
discrimination and prejudice.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="3mxiO+mlqKsXHuyzjJFezg==cb7aBw0nurXpn1Vfsc93RJhhrMnlxd/DK0/zGIC6lmMfs9/leqg0hGIyxyDCGOr+drW"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="POokgUQCgSc/ZosqT0BuHA==cb7iGMfVIw6RG1RCJVNB44ZekS/Vg7wa/U9hrpFiORqcAtG7+FzH54MXA8ZK75X+23L"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
