---
title: "Gradually Then Suddenly"
date: "2023-05-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-05-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29854"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29854"
---

There is a famous exchange in Hemingway’s *The Sun Also Rises* where
over drinks one character asks another how he went bankrupt. The reply
is “Two ways. Gradually, then suddenly.” Often this is misquoted as “a
little at a time then all of a sudden” which sounds better than the
original. Hemingway was famous for his economy of language, which did
not always serve him well. Even so, it is probably Hemingway’s most
famous line, even if most people do not know the source.

The main reason it is a famous line is it is true in the narrow sense of
business, but also in the broader sense of life itself. Things do not
suddenly fall apart all of a sudden for no reason at all. In fact, the
expression “no reason at all” precedes all of the big lies because
nothing happens for no reason at all. The big events in human history
are the slow buildup of little things then all of a sudden, a lot of
history seems to happen in a short period of time, to borrow another
famous expression.

This is something to keep in mind while following this <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/political/joe-biden-engaged-bribery-scheme-foreign-national-fbi-internal-document-alleges"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> about an FBI whistleblower’s
claims regarding the Biden family. According to Sen. Chuck Grassley and
Rep. James Comer, this whistleblower has presented to them documentation
showing the FBI has evidence of a pay-for-play scheme run by the family
of Joe Biden while he was Vice President. The allegation is that Biden
sold his influence to a foreign entity in exchange for cash to the Biden
family.

For starters, this is not a new claim, but coming from two politicians
not known for rocking the boat changes the nature of the charges. Joe
Biden has been dogged by corruption allegations for a long time. He is
worth tens of millions despite never having had a job outside
government. That and he bragged on the campaign trail about extorting
personal favors from the Ukrainian government. He got a prosecutor fired
by threatening to withhold an aid package.

Next week there will reportedly be a hearing at which the current head
of the FBI will be asked pointed questions about the specific documents
Grassley and Comer cite in their letter to the FBI. Most likely
Christopher Wray will lie and stonewall at the hearing, refusing to
acknowledge even his own existence as a way of telling Congress that he
is above the law. This is one of those gradual things. Gradually, the
bureaucracy refuses to acknowledge the authority of Congress.

Those paying attention know the FBI is America’s most corrupt
organization. They tried to overturn the 2016 election by running an
illegal surveillance operation on Trump, then engineered a year’s long
coverup of it. Holding black mail material on Biden may actually be
worse. That is the real story here. They also have Hunter’s laptop,
which they tried to hide and still refuse to acknowledge. Why would they
need all of this dirt on a sitting President?

This is one of those gradual events. In isolation, the FBI shenanigans
during the Trump era could be written off as partisan zealots abusing
their power, but when you add in this stuff you suddenly get a different
picture. What emerges is something like a praetorian guard controlling
the most important offices in the system through blackmail, extortion,
and espionage. The question that should follow is who else are they
blackmailing with secret material?

Another gradual moment is the great leaving alone the media is giving to
this and the other whistleblowers who have revealed corruption in the
FBI. If such revelations happened in the Trump years, the coverage would
be wall-to-wall. We would know the name of the whistleblower, as the
press would have made her a star. The reputation of the media is very
poor, but most people still trust it. This sort of bias is what will
eventually lead to the total collapse in trust.

A glimpse of what is coming can be seen in the Tucker Carlson drama. Fox
News Channel has lost half their audience since they fired their most
popular host, but the collapse is not just about Carlson. It is the
final straw, the one break in trust that on top of many others is what
finally does it for these former viewers. Gradually, then all of a
sudden people realized that Fox News was a scam, run by grifters who
privately mocked the people in their audience.

Of course, the Joe Biden story is itself an example of the gradually
then suddenly phenomenon in our politics. For half a century he was
nothing more than an affable dimwit who represented the interests of the
credit card companies. Everyone in Washington knew Joe Biden was a
stupid man, but he was likable and generally regarded as an honest man.
Sure, he told outlandish lies about his life, but no one thought he was
taking bribes.

As with everything else in the 1990’s, Joe Biden appears to have gone
from affable dimwit who was mostly honest to a man who walked around
Washington with a list of prices for the services he could offer. Those
two grifters from the Ozarks set the ball in motion for everyone. If
their corruption was allowed, then why not a little influence peddling
in the Senate? If that is okay, then why not sell insider information in
exchange for stock tips?

This is how we find ourselves with a corrupt buffoon in the Whitehouse,
held hostage by a secret police relying on blackmail and extortion. All
of those small steps here and there down the path of corruption
eventually led to that all of a sudden moment on election night in 2020.
Half a century ago when Joe Biden was in his prime, no serious person
imagined him in the White House, unless he was on a visitors pass, but
all of a sudden, he is president.

In the fullness of time, we will experience the great all of a sudden
moment and the usual suspects will swear it was for no reason at all. In
reality it will be the result of those many gradual changes that began
with the decision by official Washington to invite the Devil into their
world. After that, it was one small compromise here, another there,
until there were no rules at all, just naked power. Then all of a
sudden, no one had any reason to trust anything, and Hell followed after
it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="q31WeKobPHd50rVw6V/tGA==cb7HpOoc0j9R4XfuQExP/Pbia6rjAO2hDFnmvRrPZHatwN5St9IGyLp5lWoUx39BGbE"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="q09VfwmS0nFjZEe1R0rNFg==cb7GfWEgTEk/adnwPZIayl0RXgZz1hADvTWKFqEQLPebl0WJI2sEB0mCo1grsN0PzIM"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
