---
title: "Mercenary Rule"
date: "2023-10-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30963"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30963"
---

In the novel *Starship Troopers*, Robert Heinlein described a world
ruled by a military elite called the Terran Federation. Only veterans of
the military enjoyed full citizenship, including the right to vote.
Those who did not perform military service retained their rights of free
speech and assembly, but they could not vote or hold office. As is true
of every system there were some exceptions here and there, but important
government jobs were reserved for federal service veterans.

This idea of earning citizenship through military service has always had
some popularity on the Right, for no other reason that it would seem to
exclude the sorts of people who are living arguments against democracy.
It seems unlikely that you will get too many people like Ocasio-Cortez
in public office if she must first do a tour in the military, rather
than just wink at customers as a barmaid. Even if she passed that
threshold, military veterans are too serious to vote for someone like
her.

Rule by warrior elite has an appeal because it conjures images of the
Middle Ages in which a ruling elite arose from the warrior class. A
world governed by an honor code just sounds better to right-wing people.
It also brings to my Spartan society, which proved to be superior to
Athenian democracy in the Peloponnesian War. A society rule by male
warriors just feels like it would be better. At the minimum, it would
avoid the problems that come with the feminization of society.

There is a less fantastic appeal to this concept. In the novel, this
system arose in the aftermath of the collapse of 20th century Western
democracy. That system proved itself unable to combat crime and juvenile
delinquency. Interestingly, Heinlein also imagined a future in which the
West teams with Russian against China. Another reason for the new system
of military governance was due to the inability of fully democratic
systems to confront the authoritarianism of China.

Another way of looking at this setup is in the larger context of the
novel in which earth is at war with two alien species. The decisions
that must be made in such a war cannot be left to lonely barmaids. They
must be made by the people who have skin in the game, which in the case
of earth, means the warrior class. Remove the giant bugs trying to
destroy earth and a system controlled by those with skin in the game
could simply mean a system ruled by property owners and families.

The Heinlein idea sounds good until you look around at present day
America. Some of the worst people in public life are veterans. The
obvious example is Lindsey Graham, who is arguably the wort human in the
Senate. The reason we can say this is his mentor John McCain is now in
Hell. When Graham joins him, there will be other veterans ready to fill
the role. Richard Blumenthal and Joni Ernst will be the early favorites,
but we will no doubt be spoiled for choice.

By the time Lucifer calls Graham home, Dan Crenshaw and Brian Mast may
have parlayed their military service and general awfulness into the
Senate. Crenshaw is the veteran’s version of Ocasio-Cortez. Mast has
used his service and wartime injury to make himself Israel’s main
representative in Congress. They have many other representatives in the
imperial congress, but only Brian Mast wears the uniform of the Israeli
military to work every day.

While the Heinlein model sounds good in theory, in practice it is
probably better to ban veterans from public office. There certainly have
been some veterans in Washington politics who have done good work for
their constituents, but the terrible ones have done far more damage. The
fact that veterans are so easily turned into weapons by the neocons
suggests the military selects for the sorts of people who will gladly
become a mercenary for whoever can write the biggest check.

This may be the result of the volunteer military. Despite all the
patriotic blather, the American military is composed of mercenaries.
They structure their pay to attract the types of people they need. The
military does not restrict itself to citizens, as military service is
one way to win citizenship. Due to the lack of white men joining the
ranks, the military is now looking to recruit foreigners. The fact is
the relationship between the institution and the soldier is purely
transactional.

Another reason for the terrible veterans rising up in the political
ranks is the nature of all democratic systems. Voting bestows authority
on the people doing the voting. Win the crowd and you are right,
morally, and factually. Of course, the best way to win the crowd is by
convincing them you are a virtuous person. If the people assume you are
a good person, they are going to give you the benefit of the doubt,
which means you will win those 50-50 debates against someone without
your reputation.

John McCain leveraged this reality by waving around the flag with one of
his damaged arms, while reminding everyone he was a prisoner of war. His
initial foray into politics came soon after he returned home. He
commissioned a long article in a big foot magazine about his deeds as a
POW. His physical injuries won him sympathy and his tales of heroism won
him respect. Who was going to challenge John Wayne McCain, especially
when it came to military matters?

Another reason military service should be a disqualifier is that it is
the worst possible training for democratic politics. In theory,
politicians in a democratic system are in office to represent their
constituents. Maybe those constituents are determined by geography or by
ideology, but they are always real people. Those real people are living
in the real world living normal lives. The ideal representative is one
who has lived as his constituents and alongside his constituents.

Outside of congressional districts that have a large military base, life
in the military is alien to civilian life. The military trains you to be
a useful cog in a vast bureaucratic machine in which none of the cogs
get to make many choices. The choices that do arise come with a
well-defined list of options. Most important, the military comes with a
floor as long as you do the minimum. Real life does not come with a
floor. You can do all the right things and still get dealt a bad hand by
reality.

Of course, all of this is an argument against democracy. It is a system
that selects for the worst sorts of people. These are people who seek to
use any means necessary to win over the crowd in order to profit
themselves. Whether it is Ocasio-Cortez shaking her boobs in front of
the camera of Crenshaw waving the bloody shirt around, the point is
always the same. Democracy rewards the politicians who are adept at
turning your virtues into a vice so they can exploit them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="hwrDQkgSzQqeiXsXYMF/bw==cb7hTTWpLVzDkc3LHB7N4fIhfRBmLc5Cv2fP4dm8qpwxEKuKpM8p/dieizIuPPvcexD"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="hgw1pKuhWuFymT2vP6TcZA==cb7Top0WbBaQSuL8gxSD2bq04KTizMUBTU8Jo5Jmvl6fhjmvSVWOpSkdtBqwqhmVLQR"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
