---
title: "Radicalizing Ron"
date: "2023-05-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-05-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29931"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29931"
---

Memorial Day is a little more than a week away and it is both the
unofficial start of summer and the start of the presidential campaign
season. Look for Mike Pence and Ron DeSantis to make it official with a
kick-off event over the long weekend. Tim Scott may also jump into the
race, as he set up an exploratory committee in April, which usually
precedes an official announcement. That will bring the field to nine on
the Republican side and two on the Democratic side.

In theory, when you run for office, you are running on a platform that
you think makes you the best man for the job. In reality, the first step
is to run for the nomination, which revolves around being the best
chance to win the general election. You may have a great plan for the
office, but if you have no chance to win the general election, the
voters are not going to support you in the primary. This is why Vivek
Ramaswamy will be this cycle’s Andrew Yang.

Normally, the out of office party has a scramble in their primary, where
the candidates make their case for being the nominee. It is one part
personality contest and one part argument for beating the incumbent. In
the case of the Republicans, this would normally mean who offers the
best shot to beat Biden. If it is an open seat where both parties are
seeking a fresh face, then the primaries tend to devolve into who has
the most institutional support in their respective party.

This is what made the 2016 presidential election so rare. Both parties
should have had a scramble, but the Democrats rigged their primary in
favor of Clinton. The Republicans were ready to rig their primary for
Jeb Bush. That way the party insiders could relive the 1990’s with a
Bush – Clinton rubber match. Trump wrecked that for the Republicans by
changing the calculus of the primary. He made the race into a no
confidence vote for the party and the political establishment.

Fast forward to the upcoming Republican primary and the party has the
same problem plus additional problems. The base of the party is still
very salty with regards to the party leadership and the political
establishment. That turned up in the midterm where turnout was tepid in
many races. Last week the Republicans <a
href="https://www.newsweek.com/colorado-republicans-lose-conservative-stronghold-45-years-1800846"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">lost</a> a sure thing election in
Colorado to a random African. They just <a
href="https://www.politico.com/news/2023/05/16/jacksonville-deegan-mayor-00097314"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">lost</a> the Jacksonville Florida mayor’s
race, despite having huge advantage in money.

Of course, Trump is even more of a middle-finger to the system now than
he was in 2016, which strengthens his appeal to disaffected primary
voters. The people the voters hate have been waging jihad against Trump
since he left office. No one talks about what he did or did not do in
office, because the media is full of threats and warnings about Trump
and the people who support him. When Biden warned about white supremacy
the other day, every Trump voter got the message.

That is the new element to this cycle. Donald Trump is a rich man who
could retire from politics and enjoy himself. He could spend his time
doing what he truly loves, which is real estate schemes. Whatever you
think about the man, he is really good at real estate schemes, and he
has a passion for it. Instead, he chooses to be a martyr in a political
fight against the full force of the regime. The sorts of people who keep
the country going are naturally sympathetic to what Trump is doing.

This is why none of the other options in the Republican primary have a
chance to win the nomination, barring extraordinary events. Dreary
dullards like Asa Hutchinson, Nikki Haley and Mike Pence can operate
only as avatars for what Trump the political symbol represents, which is
a rejection of the establishment. The party would be better served by
putting cardboard cutouts of various party hacks on stage. Trump making
fun of a silhouette of Mitch McConnell would make good television.

Interestingly, the one candidate who seems to understand what is going
to happen is Vivek Ramaswamy, who avoids talking about Trump. He has a
lot of money which is how he buys his way onto Fox News interviews. In
those appearances, he is careful to avoid the Trump issue. Instead, he
repeats Trump issues and makes an entertaining complaint against the
system. Again, he has no chance, but he seems to get the problem the GOP
field is facing.

This is the problem DeSantis faces. He is the only plausible alternative
to Trump, but if he attacks Trump, he will sound like the establishment
sissies and media rage heads who have been attacking Trump for close to
a decade. On the other hand, his path to victory is to argue that he has
a better chance of winning the general election than Trump and that is
going to require a direct comparison between himself as a candidate and
Trump as the well-known public figure.

One clue as to how Team DeSantis is going to try and square that circle
is by staking out positions to the right of Trump on things like
immigration. He just signed a bill enforcing the states labor laws with
regards to migrant workers. The new <a
href="https://www.vox.com/2023/5/17/23725952/ron-desantis-immigration-law-florida"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">law</a> requires employers to use
E-Verify when hiring. This is something that sets DeSantis apart from
the party establishment, but it also puts him to the right of Trump, who
keeps doing the legal versus illegal immigration thing.

This is just one issue. DeSantis has already made himself a champion of
children with his tough stance on the groomer issue. He has come under
fire from the degenerate community over this stuff, with the
libertarians leading the charge against his policies toward the Disney
corporation. As a political matter, if you have the rainbow warriors and
the libertarians attacking you, then you will get a fair hearing from
the sorts of people who vote in Republican primaries.

This may be why the regime is worried about DeSantis. His only path to
victory is to move the Overton window away from where the regime wants
it. Inevitably, Trump will seek to outflank DeSantis on these issues.
Imagine Trump taking on the trannies and you can see why Washington is
worried. Throw in the opportunistic and entertaining Ramaswamy and the
gap between the Cloud People and the Dirt People could become an
impossible to ignore chasm by 2024.

That may be the ironic twist to the effort to stop Trump. Ron DeSantis
is supposed to be Trumpism without Trump, but in the end, he may be a
radicalizing agent that shifts the party base further toward a revolt
against the regime. In order to avoid being called Neocon Ron, DeSantis
will have to be Radical Ron and in so doing he will help legitimize a
radical rejection of regime morality. Opposing the regime moves from
instinctive reaction to a radical imperative.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="sDQQfBXbIOE8flj93ETV+w==cb7JYIRT9bYt0bK5ByWjinB94qnHynJ9nuzgqrzY7bwq7kTGM4qG2RRaXd7PcsThzva"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Lx64LyCQiHP3TVvkt1mAzA==cb7iUuhyr+xbdpKaKHpMDRgj14h2YnRial5DDIB+ai8zb0fqendOYwLoCVHpfBB66jM"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
