---
title: "Our Alaric Moment"
date: "2023-07-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-07-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30375"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30375"
---

**Note:** If you enjoy the sound of me droning on about things like
affirmative action, then you will enjoy this <a
href="https://josbcf.substack.com/p/el-nino-speaks-87-is-a-right-wing#details"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">show</a> I did with Jose Nino. I am not
the best interviewee, but this one turned out better than most of them.
Jose is a good host.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you were living in the Western Roman Empire in the fourth century you
probably knew that things were not going well. This assumes that you
were prosperous enough to have time to think about these things. You
could see that the infrastructure was failing and that the empire was
struggling to maintain order. On the other hand, the decline had been
happening for a long time so things may have seemed normal. Without some
way to compare the present to the past, you only have instinct.

Today we have mountains of facts and figures to tell us how things are
doing in the Global American Empire. There was a time not so long ago
when these facts and figures made up the bulk of news coverage.
Economists became court wizards, explaining the latest unemployment
figures or trade numbers. They were also called upon to bless whatever
polices were being debated in Congress. In the Obama years, economic
data was the way we measured the glories of the empire.

That has all changed now. One reason is no one in their right mind takes
anything the government says at face value. People had grown used to the
way the media biased the numbers depending upon who was in office, but
the mortgage crisis cratered the public’s confidence in the numbers
themselves. If all of the court wizards explaining the numbers could not
see the mortgage fiasco coming, then why should anyone believe them
about unemployment or inflation?

Then you have the general lying that has become a feature of government.
The lying about Covid not only disgraced the medical profession, but it
finished off whatever trust people had in the official numbers. If the
government lies about how many people are dying from Covid just to move
more product for the drug makers, the government will lie about how many
people are working or the inflation numbers. No one trusts the numbers
because no one trusts the people issuing the numbers.

There may be something else at work. Into the 1980’s, the numbers out of
the stock markets were predictable. The markets went up as the economy
improved out of a recession and the markets went down before a
recession. In between the blue-chip stocks maintained a consistent
price-to-earnings ratio between 14.00 and 16.00, which was the gold
standard of the market. You could compare a stock’s performance to the
S&P 500 to gauge the stability of the company.

That changed in the 1980’s with the new global currency arrangements.
The P/E ratio of the S&P 500 as of this moment is 26.43. That looks high
compared to the historic averages, but it is low compared to recent
times. Just before the mortgage crisis the number climbed to 123.73. It
collapsed soon after, but even in the midst of what they said was a near
death experience for the financial system, the P/E ratio for the S&P 500
only dropped down into the historic average range.

The point here is we cannot trust the numbers if the numbers have no
relationship to anything we have experienced. When the end of the world
has the same numbers as what most consider to be a golden era for the
empire, those numbers cease to have any meaning to us. Throw in the fact
that most people do not feel like they are richer than their ancestors
and those inflated stock figures carry even less weight. We are left to
rely on our instincts to judge things.

Of course, our sense of things, that gut feeling, is the result of a
many small things that we experience every day. Three-quarters of
Americans think the country is going in the wrong direction because they
go to the grocery store every week. They see that despite the crowing
about inflation coming down, food remains expensive. Granted, no one is
starving in America due to a lack of affordable food, but it is that
thing they see every day that gives people a sense of things.

Think about something simple like a pint of premium ice cream. A few
years ago, a pint was sixteen ounces. “A pint is a pint the world
around” was true from peak of the British empire until just a few years
ago. Now a pint is fourteen ounces. The price for the new pint is not
the same as the old pint. The price is more than the old pint. A few
years ago, the old pint of ice cream was five dollars. That is about 31¢
per ounce. Today the new pint is over seven dollars or 51¢ per ounce.

That is a seventy percent change in the price. This is one example and
probably not a representative one, given that butterfat prices drive
dairy prices. Even so, this is something people see all over the
marketplace. Shrinkflation is a word because it is a thing that exists.
People notice that the containers are getting smaller, or they are
getting less full in the case of things like snacks. Meanwhile, prices
go up. This subtly tells people that something is going wrong.

This is probably why we are no longer getting a parade of court wizards
analyzing the latest economic numbers. According to the numbers, Joe
Biden should be dozing into reelection with an insurmountable lead, as
his court wizards flood the airwaves with the good news about the
economy. Instead, no one talks about the numbers and Biden is as popular
as rectal cancer. It is possible he could lose the election to a man
sitting in prison or be deposed by the secret police.

This brings us back to where we started. There were those in the Roman
Empire who sensed the true state of affairs. No doubt some of them lived
and died expecting things to fall apart, only to stagger on long past
their time. Then there were others who internalized this reality and
just accepted that no matter how grim things might appear, the empire
was a permanent feature of life. The people probably just tried to make
the best of things, even as they noticed the decline.

All of that changed on August 24, 410 AD when Alaric led the Visigoths
into the eternal city, sacking Rome and setting off the collapse of the
Western empire. The empire staggered on for a bit longer, but it was
over at that point. All of those bad signs people had sensed probably
seemed obvious in retrospect. Even so, the sack of Rome by the Visigoths
was a shock to the world. The signs seemed obvious, but people still
thought that the imperial order was permanent.

This is most likely the fate of the American empire. There are lots of
signs that things are going poorly for the empire. Getting whipped by a
collection of bronze age goatherds in the graveyard of empires should
have been a wakeup call, but the empire is now picking fights with
Russia and China. Meanwhile things deteriorate domestically, both
economically and culturally. Yet, we stagger on, but somewhere out there
is an Alaric moment just waiting to happen.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="XPguWkLGGGtr83wlRalKMA==cb7aRTCDI2TgjZ7G6j4ytJmMkCJbK1uEw7FUK4hoHD91CbRosvs195vepNqB5wo8Io3"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="MpeFFRchBEb/GgszOgMNfQ==cb789s8svU1PpFmuDZagURkJR/vlI3PGqPBl1B46CpZ8FoylVt1CuZHHKr3iJpIFLbN"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
