---
title: "Liberal Theocracy"
date: "2023-05-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-05-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29961"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29961"
---

Since the late Middle Ages, political thought in the West has started
with the assertion that the point of social organization was to reduce
coercion. The ideal society is one in which everyone naturally played
their role without being forced into it. The assumption is that forcing
people into roles for which they are not suited, or they do not wish to
perform is both unjust and dangerous. It is also more costly to compel
people to obey the law than if they voluntarily abide by the law.

If the goal of your political model is to reduce coercion to the
absolute minimum, then you ideally want a society that agrees on
everything. After all, if everyone agrees that society must have gong
farmers and some people are better suited for the task than others, then
everyone is going to agree on having gong farmers. Even the guy chosen
for the task will agree if it is explained to him. He may not like the
task, but he will understand he is playing a vital role in his society.

Straight away you can see the problem for individualism and the natural
rights crowd when it comes to organizing society. If we start from the
assumption that we are all unique individuals in control of our own
destiny, then we are free to not go along with being the town’s gong
farmer. Even if all the facts point to that role being best for the
person and his community, he is free to reject it because he is an
autonomous person free to live his life as he sees fit.

If we assume we have magical rights bestowed upon us by the gods, then
it is fundamentally immoral for society to coerce us into anything, much
less a profession we do not like. Since coercion is not limited to
physical force, the gong farmer who sees himself as a sovereign man with
natural rights is going to look at the social arrangements that result
in him being the gong farmer as coercion. In other words, he has a right
to not be the gong farmer.

You can see the obvious problem with trying to organize a society
composed of individuals who think they have God-given rights. Your
proposed social order must first convince all of them to accept the
results of the system, even if the results favor some members over
others. That is a tall order, given that everyone believes that they
have the same rights as everyone else. After all, if God gave them the
same rights, why would he then not give them the same talents?

Since it is not possible to get even a small community to agree on
everything about the particulars of organizing the community, especially
when everyone believes they are God’s special little snowflake, you are
going to need something that leads these individual snowflakes to
voluntarily submit to the social order. They will have to believe that
their individual rights rest on their sacrifice of those rights in order
to maintain the society which makes their rights possible.

That last bit is what has vexed the natural right crowd for generations.
They desperately want to believe that natural rights exist independent
of society and the men who create and maintain it, but logically this is
not true. The concept of rights, natural, individual, human or any other
version, is an invention of man. Rights are a claim on society, a demand
that the rest of society protect certain entitlements bestowed upon
members in exchange for their membership in the society.

We see this at work all over today. The man who subdued the subway
lunatic operated on the assumption that he had a duty to defend the
rights of his fellow subway riders from that crazed lunatic. The people
who will put him in jail operate under the assumption that they have
duty to defend their race against any and all actions by people of the
white race. Since the latter group has control of society, the former’s
individual rights will mean little in the courtroom.

Putting the particulars of that aside, we see a problem of trying to
organize a society based on individualism and natural rights. The first
thing that must happen is that such a society exclude anyone who does
not accept these principles. Even a small number of people who reject
these concepts will create two problems for your society organized
around individualism and natural rights. One is they will violate the
rights of others and second, they will force society to violate their
rights.

Now, science tells us that the closer humans are genetically, the more
likely they are to agree on the basics of human behavior. Put a group of
random Finns together and they will quickly display the group
characteristics of Finns. Put a group of Bantus together in the exact
same circumstances and they will quickly display the group
characteristics that we associate with Bantus. If you want a society
with the least amount of coercion, then you want the least amount of
biodiversity.

What follows for the individualism and natural rights people is they
must insist on a society composed of people who naturally cherish
individualism and natural rights if they have any hope of maintaining
these things. Further, they must also conjure an exception to their
moral code that allows them to act collectively in order to repel
attempts to undermine their individualism and natural rights regime.
They end up in the same dilemma as the libertarians.

Hans Hermann-Hoppe observed that within libertarian ideology there is no
way to maintain a libertarian society. After all, if John Galt suddenly
decides to be a Marxist, what business is it of his neighbors? If others
join Galt in his new civic religion, what can the libertarians do about
it? The non-aggression principle forbids them from compelling Galt and
his followers to remain libertarians. The individualism and natural
rights crowd run into the same problem with the defenders of the subway
lunatic.

The solution for the individualism and natural rights people is a moral
code that transcends individual rights, but also supports individual
rights. If you believe that your people have been given rights by your
God and those rights are what distinguish you from other human groups,
then collectively defending those rights is not only permitted, but also
necessary. You have a God-given duty to defend your society which is
organized around individualism and natural rights.

What you need to maintain a society based on individualism and natural
rights is a folk religion that sacralizes those rights *and* the people
who possess them. The same God that grants your people natural rights
commands you to defend the people granted those rights, as well as their
society that maintains those rights. Under such a condition, the
individualism and natural rights people would be justified in rioting in
New York and chasing off the prosecutors in defense of their God and his
people.

The missing component for the individualism and natural rights crowd is
a moral component that compels the believer to defend these principles.
Nature cannot be the moral authority for anything, as natural operates
outside the domain of the prescriptive, but God or gods can certainly be
that moral authority. God tells us what we ought to do, so if our God
tells us we ought to respect individualism and natural rights, then we
have a duty to do so by any means necessary.

What all this means is that if you want to live in a society in which
individualism and natural rights are respected by everyone, then you
need to come up with a folk religion that sacralizes those things. What
you want is to live in a liberal theocracy in which dissent from
individualism and natural rights is not tolerated. What liberalism needs
is not a Karl Marx, but a Moses, someone who lead his people to their
promised land where they can create their liberal theocracy as God
intended.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="cblYQP4UPaTLMnhv/zzhjg==cb7ri97qf+FHJEP7qFi7Ss7LjUber2LJUIGXbiOboDPuJT/OLWwxOeHydQt9nzzi7sq"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="I7yuBn0n3S1r5uq/3Qp79A==cb7m/G5mo9+/LqSWf0ZeteGQ3Xos4WI0BdjLF/qRvoUrVMd99A0Ua1D3c966BQ2FoZf"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
