---
title: "The Great Reckoning"
date: "2023-03-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-03-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29506"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29506"
---

For generations, going back to the middle of the last century, people
have been warning about systemic problems in American society. Some of
the warnings have been tricks to continue the cultural revolution. Some
have been part of the financial legerdemain that defines so much of our
economy and politics. There have been, however, many sincere warnings
about long term structural problems. Out of necessity and expediency
they were ignored, but that may be about to change.

The most obvious is the most immediate. Going back to the Clinton years
people who understood money were warning about loose money policy.
People forget that Clinton winning was a surprise. After all, Bush came
into the election with a huge war victory and a solid economy. The
Reagan expansion was viewed not only as a miracle of Republican policy,
but a rebuke of left-wing economics. Then the economy soured before the
elections and Clinton was president.

Much of official Washington blamed the tight money policies of Alan
Greenspan for tanking the economy under Bush. Team Clinton made sure
this could never happen again, especially with a Democrat in office.
Loose money became official policy and only got worse with each
administration. By the Obama years, we were in a world of Zero Interest
Rate Policy. Now those ZIRP chickens are coming home to roost in the
form of a systemic banking failure.

No one should be deceived by what is happening. Last weekend, the
Federal Reserve decided that the banks are all broke due to holding
assets that have a declining market value, so the Federal Reserve
effectively nationalized the banks. The only way they can regain control
of money policy is to eliminate the market for long dated bonds by
promising to buy them at face value. The Federal Reserve has
nationalized the banks by nationalizing the bond market.

This is required to avoid a bank collapse but also allow for the long
overdue reorganization of the financial sector. A generation of free
money has turned Wall Street into a drug addict. It is entirely
organized around getting the narcotic of free money from the government,
rather than the normal practice of banking. All of its schemes are
designed not to create value in the economy but to generate the need for
more free money, a portion of which ends up in executive pay.

This did not happen in isolation. The great auctioning off of the
manufacturing base that began in the 1980’s has finally caught up to
America. The subtext to the Ukraine war is the fact that America no
longer has the ability to make the weapons it requires to wage war on
the world. Russia, with a third of the population, can now make more
weapons for war than America. Her production of ammunition dwarfs what
America can muster, which is why Russia is slowly grinding down the
Ukrainians.

Of course, one main reason for the auctioning off of the manufacturing
base is it raised quick money to invest in the rigged casino that is
Wall Street. This fact was masked to a great degree by cheap consumer
goods. In fact, the culture of cheap consumer goods has justified all of
the nation wrecking policies. Everything from open borders to wholesale
political corruption have been justified by cheap lawn care and cheap
products sold in big box stores.

The price tag for decades of cheap goods underwritten by the sale of the
manufacturing base is now coming due. The only thing America makes now
is sexual deviance and lectures in favor of sexual deviance. It turns
out that there is no global market for rainbow colored marital devices
and films promoting the culture around them, which means America does
not have a real economy. The ongoing economic crisis is about to get
much worse as that reality becomes clear.

In fairness, some of the proceeds from auctioning off of the
manufacturing base went into the technology sector. In the fullness of
time, the robot historians may remember America for having
singlehandedly created the technological revolution. This has changed
the world. The trouble is, the technological revolution ended decades
ago, but Silicon Valley continues to consume trillions in money. With
the collapse of SVB, that great money drain is now ending.

The war with Russia and the looming war with China has also brought
other chickens home to roost. For a long time people have been warning
about the military industrial complex and its addiction to expensive,
high tech weapons. Those whiz-bang systems look great, but they are not
what wins wars. What wins a war are the tools the average soldier uses
to kill the enemy. We no longer bother making them and instead focus on
rocket ships and space lasers.

What the war in Ukraine has revealed is that NATO would have to use
nuclear weapons in a war against Russia, because NATO lacks the men and
machines to fight a ground war against the Russians. Most NATO countries
would run out of ammunition in a few weeks and have to surrender.
Against China, the American military would deliver some serious early
blows, but then run out of supplies. Chinese manufacturing capacity is
now greater than America and Europe combined.

Overlaying all of this is the crisis of competence. The SVB fiasco is a
great example of a problem that permeates American society. Instead of
rewarding skill and accomplishment, our system is rigged to reward
nonwhites at the explicit expense of whites, especially white males. The
only market that is booming in America is the racial revenge market and
the result is colorful people in positions of authority who lack the
basic skills to do the jobs they have been given.

Thirty years ago, people warned about this. What started as tolerance in
the 1980’s, became sensitivity in the 1990’s, then diversity in the new
century. It has now turned into a full blown cult of anti-whiteness.
While towns in Ohio suffer from an ecological disaster, the people in
charge fret of racist sidewalks. Corporate America is more concerned
with its ESG and DEI scores than its financial stability. We have
combined demographic reality with anti-white fanaticism into a ruling
ethic.

No society can run this way. Good luck fighting China with a rainbow
coalition of drag diverse drag queens trying to operate space guns. Good
luck weathering a reorganization of the financial system when the banks
are run by people who were just recently coaxed from caves by European
explorers. Imagine surviving an end of empire crisis with the productive
portion of society seething with rage at the fanatics who brought about
this disaster.

One could go on a long time listing the things that should never have
been allowed to happen that are now turning up in the nation’s crisis
list. All of these are the result of bad polices hatched in the late
20th century and used to loot the country by the new generations of
rulers ushered in by the Clintons. The bill for the great bust-out is
now coming due and there is no avoiding it. Like drunks at closing time,
we await the bill for generations of reckless behavior.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="yVwnH6YcAE9hEYhfdSgDZA==cb79WeDFocL9+LIbRJ4Zz4ZyCGasGfyz3Rbe1q4D9w6L76ZOUn1I99rLmG9UESi2hAc"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Wp2UZJjxCZVIDOAgnfHNPg==cb7QhAjv/2pqyyMAeq1nT0WoHIbmS26cGtLrhvdcJiwhbkm7ekAVCR1UMsoUjrFIvhv"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
