---
title: "Liberal Intolerance"
date: "2023-12-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31323"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31323"
---

There are certain assumptions about the world that modern people take
for granted, without thinking about in any detail. These assumptions are
about how things ought to be arranged in a modern society. Things like
the rule of law and freedom of speech are just assumed to be social
positives. Deliberate violations of these liberal principles are a sign
that a society is in trouble or corrupt. No one ever wonders why this is
the case as it is just part of the shared reality of modern life.

You see this in this <a
href="https://chroniclesmagazine.org/recent-features/is-18th-century-liberalism-to-blame-for-all-our-problems/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">essay</a> by Paul Gottfried, which is a
response to Canadian historian Ricardo Duchesne, who has <a
href="https://www.unz.com/article/blame-liberal-pluralism-for-the-impending-ethnocide-of-europeans/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">taken</a> Gottfried to task for his
defense of the old bourgeois liberalism of the past. It is a good essay
on the general topic of liberalism and whether or not it is to blame for
the current crisis, but of interest here is the assertion that things
like religious inclusiveness, individual freedom, and constitutional
government are in of themselves good things and signs of progress.

Gottfried does not spend any time arguing these points, as he just
assumes them to be good things that a good society ought to seek. This
is not peculiar to Gottfried, as most everyone assumes the same thing.
Go around a public area in the West and ask people if they favor more or
less freedom and they will always pick the former. The same is true for
the rest of the principles we associate with liberalism. The moral
framework of the West is just assumed to be right and reasonable.

Now, we do not wonder about gravity or the sun rising in the east and
setting in the west because these are settled. Few people know why
objects fall to the earth when dropped and even fewer know that they
accelerate toward the earth at thirty-two feet per second squared, but
they know about gravity. Like the sun rising in the east, gravity is a
settled matter, so there is no need to debate it. The same is generally
assumed about the basic principles of liberal democracy.

What would go unnoticed is the inclusion of religious tolerance in there
with reasonable things like individual liberty. Most of the liberal
project can be justified, as much as possible, by reason. We can make
logical arguments in favor of a rights-based society and limited
government. You can make a rational argument in favor of parliamentary
rule over a king or dictator. The same cannot be said for religious
tolerance, which is something taken for granted, but never examined.

Western societies are moral societies. Instead of being bound together
by kinship or force, as we see with most of the world, what holds
Western people into political entitles is a common morality. Sure,
blood, soil and history play a big role, but every European pollical
entity has included significant minority populations. At the dawn of the
French Revolution, most people in France did not share the same
language. They spoke various local dialects, and in some areas, deferent
languages.

This is even more true today as the elites of the West preach open
borders, pluralism, and democracy as the holy trinity. The only way this
can work is if all the new people agree to the old moral code or the
moral code is adjusted to accommodate the new people coming into these
old societies. The new speech and thought laws are all about policing
the new moral code which prohibits the old stock from thinking anything
but happy thoughts about the newcomers.

This is the basis for pluralism. Anyone can be an American if they
embrace the American creed, which is a secular way of saying they can be
an American if they embrace the religion of Americanism. Vivek Ramaswamy
and Ben Shapiro have based their lives on this assertion. They are just
as American as the descendants of Quakers or 19th century German
immigrants. They say this because they embrace the religion of America
and therefore meet the moral criteria to be American.

The problem here should be obvious. If Americanism is the moral code of
America and by extension the West in general, and it insists on a
general universality, then there can be no tolerance for alterative
moral codes. Not only can American liberalism not tolerate alternative
moral codes internally, but it must be intolerant of alternative moral
codes external to the West. If you want to know why the West has waged
war on Islam and now Eurasia, there is the answer.

The reason that Western societies now function like secular theocracies
is liberalism has evolved into a religion. It has crowded out
Christianity from the public square because no society can have more
than one moral framework. Just as science replaced religious
explanations for the natural world, liberalism has displaced the
explicitly supernatural basis for societal morality with an esoteric
moral code based vaguely on things like equality and openness.

What this means is that the assumption that religious tolerance is a
liberal principle or could ever have been a liberal principle is false.
The opposite is true. Liberalism must drive out or suppress any
alternative moral framework, because it is the moral framework that
evolved to replace the old moral order. That means it is not just
intolerant or Christianity, but any morale framework that places itself
above the morality of the liberal order. Everything must submit to the
liberal faith.

The question, of course, is why has the liberal project that started at
the end of the Middle Ages evolved into something like a secular
Gnosticism? Gottfried looks for things outside of liberalism, like
Protestantism, while Duchesne looks for things within the liberal
tradition like pluralism. In both cases and in most critiques of
liberalism the assumption is there is a worm in the apple. The apple
being the liberal project and the worm being some sort of corruption.

In reality, the problem may simply lie in the fact that you cannot have
a moral order based on reason. Reason cannot be the authority for how
people ought to treat one another or how government should be organized.
Reason can only take us to the point where the people need to sort these
issues for themselves, because the great diversity of man means there is
no universally right answer to these questions. How we ought to act is
up to us or our gods.

When the gods are removed and tradition is discarded, something that
must happen when all things are subjected to the acid wash of reason,
there are no standards against which to measure moral claims. That
leaves force as the determining factor, which means the moral order is
decided by people who see it as their purpose to impose their sense of
the moral order. Liberalism must end with a ruling class of secular
clerics engaged in a never ending sermon.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:Â **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.Â  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="dE601PjWHD+cUGA9dpLO0A==cb7JyblgI1geRACV86WhQ89P7fjmZ3+AR00nSBM7MBFSMx49/PUVVFhqW1B0eZ4Hh0N"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="wnyHpalqElu82NDIZfTIRg==cb7QsPLzHXa3ChFjt/QKjkeq44uuPE3TYwCcKAiNLG7lLblZ+H38mX3yL9QzCyCk95e"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
