---
title: "The Future Of Fed Plenty"
date: "2023-05-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-05-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30001"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30001"
---

Americans have been conditioned to believe we live in a market economy
where producers chase customers. The subtext to American politics for
generations has been protecting the marketplace from the socialists. In
reality, America is more of a command economy than a market economy. We
do not think of it as a command economy because that phrase brings to
mind commissars arguing about why the left shoe factory has a different
quota than the right shoe factory.

While we have never had five-year plans or an official industrial
policy, the people in charge have always had a tight grip on the
economy. The primary lever since the 1980’s has been the money supply.
The bank of all banks, the Federal Reserve, controls the flow of money
in the system. While it does not decide how many shoes get made, it does
decide the shoe maker’s cost of money. The Fed can create a recession to
reduce demand and it can create plenty through cheap money.

This is not the only lever of our command economy. The regulatory state
exerts an enormous amount of power on the economy. Right now, the EPA is
plotting to kill off the gas stove market in order to please Gaia. The
claim is gas stoves give people the cooties or something, but the real
reason is the people in the EPA are primitives who follow a spirit
religion. They can and often do change economic activity based on what
their shaman has to say about Gaia.

It is not just the federal administrative state with power over the
economy. The states have their own junior varsity administrative state.
In Maryland, for example, they have decreed that all new homes must be
equipped with sprinkler systems, like the sort you see in office
buildings. The National Fire Sprinkler Association just happens to be
located in Maryland. Their members, conveniently enough, have the
exclusive right to install and maintain sprinkler systems.

That is the other level of the command economy. Large private operators
can exert enormous pressure on the administrative and politics systems.
They also get favors that small players cannot purchase. Every Walmart
in America enjoys free infrastructure and tax abatements from local
government. One reason the big box store eliminated the small retailer
is they colluded with the state. Like the Bolsheviks in the 1920’s,
America’s ruling party prefers consolidation into controllable
industries.

The Bolsheviks liked large enterprises because they assumed they would
be easier to control, and they would drive off the vestiges of
capitalism. They were somewhat right about the last part, as we see
today. The first part they never got right. By the 1970’s, the Soviet
system grew increasingly complicated as it became less efficient,
because the scale of the system outpaced the ability to manage it. There
were too many variables and too many interactions between those
variables.

The American command economy would have faced the same problems, and it
was headed in that direction in the 1970’s, but a couple of big things
happened. For starters, the decision was made to ship the manufacturing
base overseas. Instead of trying to centrally manage an industrial
economy, production was handed over to the third world so they could do
it. The Fed could use the money supply to control the flow of
manufactured goods into the system.

The other thing that happened was the microprocessor revolution. The
Soviets recognized this as their way out of the complexity problem, but
they were already past the point of diminishing returns by the time
cheap computers and trained computer programmers were in sufficient
supply. America escaped this fate, as the economic planners were able to
harness these new tools to control the economy. The managerial state
would not be possible without computers.

The trouble is our system is now suffering from the same problems the
Soviets faced in their command economy. The complexity is overwhelming
the system. The Federal Reserve has been fighting inflation for two
years now. At the same time, spending has spiraled upward with no hope
of arresting the growth. This forces the Fed to create more money
through various means. The recent debt ceiling drama suggests there is
no political way to solve the fiscal crisis.

It may not feel like a crisis as there are plenty of jobs and there is
plenty of money to buy consumer goods. People have lots of complaints,
but few of them are about the economy, as far as anyone knows. Given the
monolithic nature of the media, we cannot assume that what we see in the
press is reality. Even so, there are no bread lines and sales of houses
and consumer goods are strong. Whatever problems that exist are not
showing up in consumer behavior.

Of course, the years following the death of Stalin were good times in
the Soviet Union, as their economy grew faster than any economy in the
West. After recovering from the devastation of the war, shops were full
of basic goods and the Soviet system seemed to be working better than
capitalism. The Russians were ahead of the West in the space race, and
they enjoyed a missile gap. Then *red plenty* slowly ground to a halt
and their system fell into a generation long decline.

The *fed plenty* that American has been enjoying for the last thirty
years may be about to turn negative for the same reasons. The system has
become too complicated for the masters of the system to operate. In the
Soviet times, the result was too many left shoes or mountains of
concrete with shortages of winter coats. In this age, it means bans of
gas stoves and diversity programs because companies care more about ESG
scores than the desires of their customers.

This was always the argument against command economies. It was not so
much that some unelected authority made decisions. It was that over
time, they would always succumb to complexity. The lack of price signals
subjected the economic trade-offs to political jockeying. In the Soviet
system, the politically favored got what they wanted, even when it made
no economic sense. In our system, we see the same phenomenon but colored
with liberal jargon.

Perhaps this is where AI steps into the breech. The next great leap in
data processing and decision making will overcome the complexity issue.
Instead of armies of analysts with economics degrees pouring over data
to draft reports for the managers, AI systems will do the work in real
time, making changes to the flow of money and information in the system
to overcome bottlenecks and political jockeying. Fed Plenty will become
the objective of the robots put in charge of the economy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ySK3T2QLCqWB6oSdbAl+ww==cb7yKzX8sRFjrXbv3/5IOmU9dpdptFehNxCyRg7QXjNw8vz8HDX0t2YX3zJMYB1kLTQ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="b7m1mOl/Tf6Cqpeno4R6GQ==cb7eJW/fzr5R6pksbW5B+i1Oqz90MXRG5BXzfr2QlL0M5hGkRYalpS2s/hierN+cSSX"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
