---
title: "The Death Of Conservatism"
date: "2023-05-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-05-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29972"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29972"
---

It is fair to say that American conservatism is dead, at least the
version that has been sold to us by the conservative industrial complex.
They still rake in millions from corporate donors, but the public
audience for this stuff is largely confined to rest homes in the sun
belt. Flag waving and tax breaks for corporations is just not the crowd
pleaser it was a decade ago, much less forty years ago. Conservatism as
a political force is headed to the dustbin of history.

The question is, why did it fail? Lost in the endless stream of outrage,
real and manufactured, is the fact that the winners are ridiculous.
Conservatism lost to men in sundresses demanding to wave their genitals
in the face of school children. They lost to people who think Hitler is
hiding under their bed. They lost to childless middle-aged women drunk
on cheap wine, complaining about men on Twitter. It took effort to lose
to this collection of bourgeois misfits.

One reason conservatism failed in America is that conservatives could
never accept that people lie in politics. In fact, lying is an essential
part of politics. The reason is you must paint your opponents as the bad
guys and your side as the good guys, which means gross exaggeration.
Conservatives never accepted this. Instead, they demanded as much
factual accuracy from their side as possible. When people on their side
would exaggerate, conservatives were there to set the record straight.

This was not the result of stupidity. American conservatism evolved into
the 1980’s as the antidote to politics. They used to make this point in
the Reagan years. Conservatism was the lack of politics. Instead, it was
just problem solving. That was very appealing to people who did not like
rolling around on the mud with left-wing kooks, but it was a terrible
way to engage in politics. It is part of what made conservatism the <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Beautiful-Losers-Failure-American-Conservatism/dp/0826209769/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">beautiful losers</a> described by Sam
Francis.

Related to this was the fact that American conservatism embraced the
libertarian idea that people are motivated by rational self-interest.
For conservatives in the 20th century, people were not spiritual beings,
so much as moist robots who naturally responded to incentives,
particularly economic incentives. This is why conservatism was the
accounting department for the welfare state. The only way they could
relate to their audience was through the jargon of popular economics.

Another result of this was the habit of conservatives to rely on charts
and graphs in response to moral claims. The Left would demand we do
something about some victim group and conservatives would respond with a
table of figures showing that the victims were not really victims. It
was not that it made conservatism heartless, but that it made them seem
brainless. They kept falling for the same traps, eventually succumbing
to the moral claims of the Left.

That is the probably the main failing of American conservatism. To this
day they insist that politics is about solving problems. This is false.
Politics is always about friends and enemies and those are defined on
moral terms. No one wants to fight someone for making a math error.
Politics is so nasty and feral because the opponents see one another in
moral terms. The other guy is the bad guy because he does not love what
you love and hate what you hate.

The Left has always understood this. The reason that the demand for
Nazis exceeds the historic global supply is the Left always needs
villains. Even when their opponents agree with them, they still call
them the worst names in their book. Donald Trump would have been happy
to make generous deals with the Democrats, but they needed to hate him
more than they wanted a deal. This is why the Left steamrolled
conservatives on every issue. They work only in morality, not facts and
reason.

This inability to understand what drives politics may explain the
inability to accept that their opponents genuinely believe what they are
saying. Much of what makes up conservative commentary is a claim that
the Left does not actually believe what they are saying, but instead
they are using it as cover for money and power. For conservatives,
everything is reduced to money and power, because this is what motivates
the moist robots they imagine as their audience.

This is why conservatives have always underestimated the Left. Because
they cannot accept that these people believe what they are saying, they
just assume they will stop saying it once they have money and power.
Instead, the Left uses their newly acquired money and power to act on
what they said and produce more outlandish things they can push onto
society. When you think people are moist robots, you stop believing that
people can be evil, which is how evil triumphs.

Finally, the great failure of American conservatism will be seen in the
Republican primary that kicks off this summer. The field challenging
Trump will insist that everyone must rally around cleaning up the mess
created by the Left. They will make the oldest of conservative
arguments. That is, you must forget about the crimes committed against
you by the other side and instead rally with your fellow citizens, even
the ones who hate you, to fight for America!

Of course, this requires you to not get anything you want and instead
normalize the latest insanity from the Left. You see, it is your duty as
an American to sacrifice your interests for the nebulous concept of
America. This was powerful magic forty years ago when the country was
85% white and had a handful of foreigners. In a country being overrun by
migrants and hyper-racialized lunatics attacking white people, this
rallying cry sounds like a suicide cult.

Robert Lewis Dabney famously <a
href="https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/826117-it-may-be-inferred-again-that-the-present-movement-for"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">described</a> conservatism as “merely the
shadow that follows Radicalism as it moves forward towards perdition.”
This was always true, for sure, but it worked for a long time because
the radicals were still aspirational, rather than suicidal. The
dialectic between the Left and the Right in American was a useful engine
for maintaining the ruling class consensus. One side proposed, the other
side opposed, and the consensus was some compromise.

This changed just as conservatism reached its peak. The triumph of
conservatism in the 1980’s was followed by the descent of progressivism
into the dark, suicidal politics of nihilism and Gnosticism.
Conservatives have never come to terms with this and as a result have
been a steep decline ever since. As America descends into tribal
politics that must follow the transition to majority-minority
demographics, conservatism will become a museum piece and then
forgotten.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="I+6YFfT/+rK/0M3pPini/A==cb77q7jP/eDrrOb2EkUc6818l8j0um8kQQKj6AQ0fe4VCuF8rk8vjX2Wn0Awk1z60Q/"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="P3anghmey3paiFUzzuLiTA==cb7qJFkqWqgfpWNEdmQKkQz6lX5lKQIFhAoI92n12LGjxoAEEOZW8TJoE0Q8kPgKoUY"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
