---
title: "Death Of The Hired Man Society"
date: "2023-06-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-06-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30106"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30106"
---

**Note:** American Renaissance is having its annual conference in August
at the usual location in Tennessee. It is a great event and anyone who
is interested in the sort of politics discussed here should make it
there at least once. You can sign up for the event at the American
Renaissance
<a href="https://www.amren.com/2023-american-renaissance-conference/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">website</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the criticisms of the public company model is that the managers
tend to think in the short term rather than long term. This was a
popular critique of American business in the 1980’s when Japan was on
the rise. The Japanese magically thought long term, which allowed them
to benefit from long term investments in industry. Sinophiles made
similar arguments about China as she rose economically. The Chinese
think long term, it was said, while America thinks short term.

Up until Trump came to town and started making bad noises about China,
those same Sinophiles made this point about democracy. The democratic
West, they said, was hobbled by the short-term thinking that arises from
regular elections, while China avoids this problem through one party
rule. Thomas Friedman of the New York Times was fond of making this
point. China’s system was winning because the Chinese were not thinking
from one election to the next.

Of course, the real reason Japan and China rose from the ashes to
challenge American industry is that connected people in the United
States saw a profit in helping these countries at the expense of
America. They flung open the gates, so to speak, on deindustrialization
of America, which led to the shifting of manufacturing to low-cost
places like Japan and then Korea and China. It turns out that both China
and Japan were the beneficiaries of short-term thinking.

Putting that aside, this difference between short and long-term thinking
with regards to how an organization functions does matter. A business
with lots of fixed assets, for example, will have to think long term,
while a business with no fixed assets can operate in the moment. The
reason for this is the former has assets that are not easily transported
or converted into cash. The latter is not tied down this way, so it does
not have to worry about long term asset protection.

You also see this in how the people in a business think. The person who
has been with a company for a long time will often take the long view.
This is exclusive to privately held companies, where the owner is
directly involved. Those long-term employees take on the owner’s time
horizon. The people who move from job to job are opportunists, making
what they can from their current situation and then moving onto the next
opportunity in which they make little investment.

This is why small business tends to be better at customer service than
the big chain stores that now dominate life. That small business owner
thinks in the longest of long term, his own life and that of his
children. The business owner sees his business as an extension of
himself. The hired man, in contrast, looks at the business as just a
place he toils for money. Who he is exists outside of what he does. The
customers are no more meaningful to him than the coffee pot.

This mindset is what harmed Trump in office. He spent his life leaping
from one real estate or media opportunity to the next, never stopping in
one place very long before he leaped to the next opportunity. His
opportunistic thinking makes him a special campaigner, but it made him a
terrible president. To be successful, a president must think about his
legacy, which is the longest of long-term thinking. That means forcing
through big changes with your name on them.

Ironically, Trump reflects what is wrong in Washington. His opportunism
is different from the people in permanent Washington only in its
presentation. The people who run the government are all hired men with
the time horizon of hired men. None of them have ever built anything or
even left footprints on the beach. The point of their existence is to
never be tied to anything, so they can flit from one opportunity in the
system to the next opportunity, building the resume for the next job.

One of the weird things about life in Washington is that it is an insult
to ask one of these people what they do for a living. Lewd acts are met
with less offense than asking one of these people what they do for work.
The reason for that is they do no work in the way in which people in the
dreaded private sector think of it. The resume of the Washington man is
a list of places and people with whom he has a connection. Where you are
and who you are with is what matters in Washington.

Of course, the politicians for whom this army of hired men in Washington
allegedly work are hired men as well. In theory, at least, the elected
official is a servant of the people, temporarily holding an office. The
whole business about the people paying the salaries of the elected
officials is supposed to remind the office holder that he is just a
hired man, easily replaced at the next election. The fact that 97% of
incumbents win reelection does not change the fundamental mindset.

Therein lies the problem with the American managerial state. The
politicians and the army of policy makers all have the mindset of the
hired man, but they also live consequence free lives. Victoria Nuland,
the architect of the disastrous Ukraine strategy, will never pay for
being terrible at her job. Anthony Blinken will bounce from this job to
a turn at the Kennedy school then maybe a comfortable ambassadorship
somewhere in the Gavin Newsome administration.

Imagine a business owner hiring a general manager that he can never
fire. Once the general manager figures out that he can never be fired,
he is no longer going to think much about the business, beyond how it
benefits him. His hired man mentality will be turbocharged by his
immunity to consequences. This is what has happened in Washington over
the last few decades. Personal success is now fully detached from the
outcome of public policy.

This is why Washington is so hostile to white people. They see white
people as the owners, and they are the general manager who cannot be
fired. They gnaw away at the assets of the owner but resent that the
owner exists. That is why they are so comfortable using terms like
“whiteness” and “white power structure.” Everyone they know is in the
same position and harbors the same resentments, therefore this language
of resentment comes naturally to them.

What this points to is the truth of managerialism. Managers are
essential in every enterprise, but they can only exist at the pleasure
of the owner. The CEO must respect the shareholders. The hired man must
respect the owner. To do otherwise turns the relationship on its head,
putting the dispensable above the permanent. That is the root of the
current crisis. America is ruled by easily replaceable men, while the
owners are treated like day workers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="zPEI2wQMwTQxSSA5dZ74eQ==cb7PA7QMGi5N5iI01ZuexzN3kxfRkq1jqZWEWrF+cBkAFOVzNtm4IzZyeUMtNzSFyTH"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="vTZb9na4HUfk74Px4Z4AEQ==cb7TI53aty0zkzWXayBalT7xL3SEMCGPmgvP630oc37BwjrnoUatjRrL5raCsgEfSf3"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
