---
title: "Came For Dinner And Never Left"
date: "2023-11-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31066"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31066"
---

**Note:** More housing shenanigans today, so this is an item from the
early days of the green door when I got the idea to review the AFI
top-100 films.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some movies are on the top-100 list because they are great stories told
very well, while others are on the list for their great technological
breakthroughs. Some are on the list for their cultural impact. That is
the case with *Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner,* a comedy about race mixing
from 1967. The film had two legends, Spencer Tracy and Katherine
Hepburn, and a big star at the moment in Sydney Poitier.

The film was viewed at the time as groundbreaking because it featured a
mixed-race couple in a positive light. Right around the time the movie
was released, the Supreme Court had struck down anti-miscegenation laws
in Loving v. Virginia. Of course, the civil rights movement was at its
peak, so this was just what white liberals wanted to see, which was
white liberals being celebrated for their goodness.

The movie itself is pretty simple. It opens with the couple in question,
generic rich white girl and her much older black boyfriend, Sydney
Poitier, getting off an airplane and strolling through an airport like
lovers on a walk in the park. Keep in mind that this is 1967, but no one
in the airport notices, because you see, this is the glorious future
where race no longer matters, so get used to it you terrible bigots.

I was not around in 1967, but I was around in 1977. I was around in 1987
and 1997 as well, so I have some idea what it was like in 1967. I know
in 1987, a mixed-race couple would have drawn a lot of stares. It was an
extremely rare thing. In 1967 you can be sure the people in that airport
would have been dumbstruck, but the story needed everyone to be cool
with it so the rest of the story would make more sense.

Anyway, the couple arrives at the mansion of the white girl’s parents.
The black maid, played by Weezy from the Jeffersons, is predictably
flabbergasted by the site of the master’s daughter bringing home a black
man. The two blacks are uncomfortable for a moment, until Poitier asks
to use the phone. He goes into the den to use the phone, where there is
a bug picture of FDR on the desk. That could be important.

The first parent home to meet the new man is the mother, who is
uncomfortable, but tries to play it cool. This is where we begin to
learn that Poitier is not just a black guy, but a special black guy. He
not only knows exactly how the mother is feeling, but he knows exactly
how to break the tension. Unlike the rest of the characters, he alone
can rise above the situation and see everything from every perspective.

Next home is the father, who is home early to get ready for his golf
outing. For some reason he is not surprised to find a middle-aged black
man in his home with his daughter, so he just makes small talk for a
while. Eventually, he notices there is a middle-aged black man in his
home with his daughter and that is when they tell him that his daughter
is planning to marry the middle-aged black man.

This is when we learn that Poitier is the most successful black man on
the planet, as he is a famous doctor and world leader. Because the world
depends on him, he is going to fly to New York to visit smart people and
then head off to Geneva to run the World Health Organization. He has a
plan to save Africa by teaching the smart African kids how to do stuff
so they can make Africa great again. No kidding.

This is what sets the plot in motion. The parents have a day to give
their blessing to the marriage or Poitier will break it off, as he is so
noble and kind that he will not come between the white girl and her
people. You see, he is not just the most accomplished black man on the
planet, he is a numinous Negro. He is the saintly black character who
exists to help the whites make their journey to enlightenment.

For a while Spencer Tracy and Katherine Hepburn fret over what to do.
Then a priest arrives and hams it up as the stereotypical Irish priest,
accent and all. He thinks the whole thing is wonderful and this is where
we see he is supposed the be the audience in this drama, enjoying how
the rich white liberals struggle with their hypocrisy while trying to
get with the times and accept the race mixing.

The catch phrase that is the title of the film comes when Tracy learns
that Poitier’s parents are coming for dinner. Tracy is at his wit’s end
over having been put in this situation when Hepburn says, “guess who’s
coming to dinner?” Then she explains how Poitier’s parents are flying up
from Los Angeles. Then the priest invites himself to the dinner, because
he is the voice of the audience and needs to be there.

At the big dinner we learn that the black parents are opposed to the
race mixing, but the mother is more open-minded to it than the father.
We now have the predictable setup of the females trying to bring their
stubborn husbands along. At some point the women commiserate and agree
to work on the men. Poitier tells off his father, not so subtly implying
that old blacks were responsible for keeping blacks down.

Finally, the black mother has a heart to heart with Spencer Tracy and he
finally sees the light and agrees to bless the marriage. He then gives a
big speech that sounds like it was written by the ad hoc committee of
the revolutionary council on race in the 1967 people’s assembly. I
actually felt sorry for Tracy having to say such stupid things in what
would be his last movie before he died. It was ten minutes of cringe.

You have to judge movies in the context of their age, but even making
big allowances for the age, this is a bad movie. It is ham-fisted,
predictable, and preachy. The main characters are shallow and basic,
with little to no development. Poitier is not even a real person in this
movie. He is just a ridiculous version of the Magic Negro. The only
character with any depth is Tracy and that is not much.

That said, the movie belongs on the top-100 list for its cultural value.
It made $54 million in 1967, which is $420 million in today’s money.
That is a massive success, which tells us that whites were enormously
gullible and stupid back then. Sure, the movie had big stars and it was
intended to be a comedy, but the fact they could not see that this was
nothing but anti-white propaganda does not speak well of them.

There is also the fact that fifty years ago the usual suspects were
pushing the idea that the only way for white men to be saved was to
allow their daughters to run off with non-white males. The reason that
white people face a long war to regain dominion over their societies is
because it has been a long war against them. The people on the other
side played the long game. *Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner* is a good
reminder of that fact and therefore worth watching today.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="MWQ21N/waLeByO99hxHCQg==cb7naiNl4HtO9N8Xjoi8nQoFsRtc86JiI6kkw6eJuNl8PQTwbNq27FCjMlD4wACzYDc"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="aw43oa32qvAC3+gGi9tcmA==cb7yfDaaYPT6ZNpYa8KpLTjXvv3Lw48kyEnwBnJvYa00rWozWfbwyxuHhqnhf5GSY6X"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
