---
title: "Wronger Than Wrong"
date: "2023-01-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-01-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29152"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29152"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about Ukraine, a post about
the reboot of the children’s cartoon *Scooby-Doo* and the Sunday
podcast. Since there is interest in it, I will be doing a weekly post on
the happenings in Ukraine. You can sign up at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Lost in all of the squid ink Michael Anton has been emitting over this
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=28720" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">post</a>, is the fact that his argument in favor of
natural rights contains logical flaws and irreconcilable contradictions
that he does not understand. That last part is not obvious, as he
surrounds his argument with so much extraneous text that the reader is
naturally distracted from the defects. Maybe the wordiness is deliberate
or maybe he simply does not understand his own argument very well.

His argument in the original
[exchange](https://amgreatness.com/2022/10/24/natural-right-and-historicism/)
with Paul Gottfried is that natural rights are a timeless universal
concept rooted in nature. Because they are rooted in nature, they are
the best basis for the politics of the New Right and society. My post
pointing out the obvious flaws with this argument elicited a long [ad
hominin
attack](https://amgreatness.com/2022/12/17/natural-right-and-the-traditional-reproach/),
pock marked with nonsense clams about human nature. His original
argument did not get any better, it simply got longer and more
vituperative.

The place to start in order to see the problems with Anton’s argument is
something called non-contextual reality. This is the claim that objects
exist in space-time regardless of whether we observe them. You walk into
a field and see a giant boulder. You accept that even though you just
saw the boulder for the first time, it existed as an object in
space-time before you happened upon it. When you turn your back and no
longer see the boulder, the boulder is still there in the field.

In fact, the existence of space-time is assumed to be non-contextual. At
least that is what much of our science claims to be true. The starting
assumption of the human sciences, and all science for that matter, is
that human senses evolved to gain a more accurate perception of reality
over time. The reason humans sit atop the food chain is we have superior
perception of non-contextual reality. Reality exists and we humans get
better at understanding it over time.

This may come up a bit later, but the case for non-contextual reality is
coming under increasing pressure within theoretical physics. Quantum
mechanics seems to contradict local realism, which is shorthand for two
principles. The principle of locality says the cause of a physical
change must be local. The principle of realism states that objects exist
independent of our minds. Experimental results indicate we do not live
in a universe controlled by local realism.

For the purpose of this topic, we will assume non-contextual
reality. Now, going back to that boulder in a field, you come upon it
and you see it, but you also have the ability to remember it. That is
because your senses process the inputs from the physical world to create
the image of the boulder. Your eyes process light waves. Your ears
process the movement of the air as sound. Your sense of smell may
process the chemicals in the air to add more context to the image.

This is how your brain perceives reality. Your sense organs process
inputs to create the image of the boulder, the sound of the birds, maybe
the smell of the grass and other things that help your brain complete
the picture. It is also possible that your brain will make a mistake and
imagine you see birds, because you hear birds chirping and your brain
takes a shortcut and places a bird in the picture. It is why two people
can see slightly different things. No two brains are the same.

These small differences in perception are the basis for optical
illusions. Two people are shown the same image, but they see different
things. Maybe one person sees vertical stripes while the other person
sees horizontal stripes. There used to be a form of dormitory art that
played this sort of trick. You looked at the poster and it was one
image, but if you kept staring at it you saw a different image. Some
people would not see the second image at all, even with help.

It is also why one man can create an image of Middle Earth while another
man cannot conceive of such a thing. The former read the books or saw
the movies, so his brain has the material to create the imaginary land.
That last bit is the important bit. The world Tolkien created does not
and cannot exist. The latter person did not read the books or see the
movies, so this concept does not exist in his brain. This figment of
Tolkien’s imagination was not transmitted to him.

The same tools the human brain uses to perceive objects in space-time
are used to conceive of things that do not and cannot exist as objects
in space-time. Our brains can create contextual reality because we can
perceive non-contextual reality. In fact, damaged brains can create
things that will appear to be more real to the user than the things that
actually exist as objects in space-time. Our lunatic asylums and
grievance studies programs are full of such people.

The reason you will not bump into an elf with an armful of natural
rights on your walk to see the giant boulder is the elf and natural
rights are not objects in space-time, so they do not exist in
non-contextual reality. They exist in contextual reality, which means
they are figments of our imagination. From the perspective of the
universe, the elf and natural right are equally fictional. If humanity
is wiped out, the concept of the elf and his natural rights are wiped
out too.

This is Anton’s first error. He seems to think natural rights are
objects in space-time, when they exist only in the imagination of man.
He confuses what we observe about human behavior, what we often call
human nature, with the concept of natural rights and then claims natural
rights are as real as a rose bush. This is false. What we observe about
living creatures, including man, exists in non-contextual reality while
the opinions we draw from those observations do not.

This brings us to the second fatal error in Anton’s world view. He
assumes subjective observations about nature can be an objective moral
authority. In his initial response, he takes issue with my statement
that natural rights are no more real than lust. He writes, “Does Z-Man
think the sex drive itself is a ‘figment of the imagination’? Or is he
rather saying that there is no difference between lust and the sex
drive, that the sex drive *is* lust and vice versa?”

Most people would have read that part of his post as a deliberate lie in
service to a straw man argument. The word “lust” has two meanings. One
is the intense desire for something. A lust for life, for example. In
normal usage, and clearly the way I used it in my post, lust is an
*inappropriate* desire, usually for sex. The former is descriptive,
while the latter is prescriptive. If someone respected Anton’s intellect
more than most, he would assume this error was deliberate.

This confusion is not deliberate. Anton writes, “These questions go
directly to the heart of the issue under consideration. The denial of
lust and of human rights stems from a denial of human nature, the ground
of justice and of all human good.” Right there we see that Anton thinks
that what he imagines to be human nature, can be the foundation for
normative claims about “justice” and ‘human good”. He thinks what we
observe in nature can be a moral authority.

In order to fully grasp the staggering ignorance of this assertion, we
have to first clarify our terms. Moral philosophy has imbued the word
“right” with magical properties, but a right is simply an entitlement.
If your health club says that gold members have a *right* to park near
the building, you know they are entitled to park near the building. If
they say that gold members are *entitled* to park near the building, you
know they have a right to park near the building.

Who decided this? What is the authority for this claim? The answer is
the people who run the health club. No sane person would argue that
nature entitles you to park next to the building of your health club.
Even if you are the sort who argues that all societies are hierarchical,
you are not going to claim that nature or nature’s god dictates that
gold level members get to park next to the building. That entitlement is
man made, a creation of the people who run the health club.

This is true of all entitlements. They are decided upon by an
appropriate authority, which is always the creation of man. Your right
to park near the building is the creation of your health club owner.
Your right to a jury of your peers is created by society. Nature is
descriptive, moral claims are prescriptive. This is why Locke had to
rely upon God as the authority for his natural rights argument. Nature
alone was not enough, he needed nature’s God to be the ultimate
authority.

Now, Anton tries to cross the tines of Hume’s fork by arguing that
natural rights are inspired by observations about human nature. This is
logically invalid, because nature does not come with entitlements. Just
because you, as a living thing, seek to preserve your life, the universe
is not obligated to respect the moral right of self-defense. All that
matters to the universe is if you pass copies of your genes to the next
generation. The universe cares about one thing and that is fitness.

This explains why this concept of natural rights does not appear in
other cultures around the world. They exist in contextual reality, which
means they only exist when we observe them. There is no oral tradition
of natural rights among the Bantu, because this concept does not exist
in their brains. China lacks the language for natural rights, because in
the reality of the Han, this concept does not exist. Natural rights are
culture specific, because culture is people specific.

Interestingly, Anton tries to explain the localism of the natural rights
concept with the claim that not all people have discovered them. You
see, the Bantu would pile into the Straus buggy if someone explained
natural rights to them. No doubt the ancient culture of the Chinese
would be overturned in a minute if someone just translated Locke into
Mandarin for them. Once that elf and his arm load of natural rights
makes his way to Bangalore, India will be the new Athens.

Even though natural rights theory is invalid as a matter of logic and
science, this is not the biggest problem with Anton’s argument. Let us
pretend that natural rights are a naturally occurring phenomenon as
Anton insists. That means they are subject to the laws of nature, like
everything else. That would also mean that nature can tell us something
about his claim that natural rights theory is the best foundation for
right-wing politics and the politics of a human society.

Consider this statement. “Natural rights are the best foundation for
society.” Now consider this statement. “Invisible leprechauns farting
pixie dust are the best foundation for society.” Without addressing the
issue of whether natural rights or invisible leprechauns exist in
non-contextual reality, there is only one thing we can say about these
two statements. Both cannot be true. If natural rights are best, then
leprechauns cannot be best and vice-versa.

Now, it is tempting to start by asking which one is more likely to be
true? Surely nature will be more friendly to the more accurate
statement. Most people would be tempted to pick the first statement,
solely on the grounds that they think natural rights are more likely to
exist than leprechauns. Most people would be wrong. It turns out that
nature, in fact the universe, is not concerned with accuracy. What
drives the whole of the universe is fitness and fitness beats truth.

For those who enjoy a technical explanation, here is the
[paper](http://cogsci.uci.edu/~ddhoff/FitnessBeatsTruth_apa_PBR.pdf)
using evolutionary game theory to support the claim that fitness beats
truth. Just as important, fitness is the universal principle of the
universe. It applies not just to living creatures, but to the things we
conjure with our minds. It applies to language, culture, religion,
medicine, politics and the sciences. A solution to a problem, for
example, evolves over time as new variants come along to compete with
the current solutions

The reason that we no longer see human societies ruled by men who claim
to be gods is that form of government died out. It died out for the same
reason that the saber-toothed tiger died out. It failed the fitness
test. Better ideas came along and out-competed the god-king concept. The
reason doctors no longer follow Aristotle’s advice on medicine is those
ideas failed the fitness test. Current medicine has passed the fitness
test but in time will be replaced as well.

If you are going to make appeals to nature, as Michael Anton does in
defense of natural rights, you better be prepared to address the fitness
question. So what does the fitness test tell us about those two
statements? Unless someone can find a society that based its moral code
on invisible leprechauns farting pixie dust, the only thing we can say
is nature has not rendered a conclusion. To paraphrase the libertarians,
real invisible leprechauns have never been tried.

That is not true for basing a society on natural rights. Athens had a
short run of success, but was eventually conquered. Their love of debate
also brought them to the brink of extermination in the Peloponnesian
wars. Comparatively speaking, the first example of a society based on
something close to natural rights did not make it long. The concept did
not make a return for over a thousand of years when it suddenly popped
up again among the English speaking people of the West.

The framers tried to found their political order on natural rights and
the mostly did it after some trial and error. In less than a single
generation the northern states wanted out of the scheme. The Hartford
Conventions would most likely led to secession if not for the War of
1812. Then we get the Civil War and the end of the Republic as conceived
by the framers. Anton would no doubt claim this was not the end of the
natural rights experiment, but the completion of it.

Even if one accept the claims of the Straus cult on this point, no one
can deny that the whole natural right regime melted away in the 20th
century. Exactly no one in the ruling class respects the rights of the
citizens. In fact, it is integral to their identity now to oppose the
very idea of rights in any form. This is true across the West. This very
Western concept of natural rights, which was the basis for our moral
order, has lost the fitness test and is now extinct.

Not to put too fine a point on it, but nature has not been kind to
natural rights. Like the giant panda, natural rights exist now only as
an exhibit. Michael Anton is the zoo keeper tending to this concept that
has failed the fitness test. Like the panda, natural rights should have
died out a long time ago, but people are sentimental, so keeping the
idea alive has become a profession. It turns out that the invisible
leprechauns farting pixie dust are the better choice, as they have yet
to fail the fitness test.

When you put it all together, Anton’s natural rights argument is
illogical and in direct contradiction with its claimed authority. He
keeps insisting nature is the authority for his moral claims, but nature
can never be the authority for moral claims. What nature tells us is
that this bit of contextual reality has failed the fitness test. If you
want some inspiration from nature, that is the place to start. Avoid
embracing contextual reality that has failed the fitness test.

In the end, Michael Anton’s antiquarianism is just escapism. He loves to
rant against tradition and historicism, but he and the other natural
rights proponents are the ones trapped in the past. He thinks we can
pull long dead ideas out of the museum storage closet and apply them to
a people who find these ideas as alien as the leprechauns farting pixie
dust. Like everyone in that scene, he simply cannot accept that the
solutions of tomorrow are not in the past.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list.
<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that makes coffee. They actually roast the beans
themselves based on their own secret coffee magic. If you like coffee,
buy it from these folks as they are great people who deserve your
support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start. If you use
<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/discount/ZMAN" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this link</a> you get 15% off of your purchase.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="VHHXYeOub5tMk7WuoJ5lTw==cb70JqFzBO7PzMQYqkUFBNxr8ZjPEk3o+Yq2bs0uB6PNItc2Z436WbvLQunMi/RagPT"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="YBpoyPNjb7kNYF+RLYuBwA==cb73I1bFcGmsTzofhw072SY2TkRQJtl/fnmVU70sn6VmHHcupbaz9874ZYosPQ2SHCm"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
