---
title: "Our Artificial Reality"
date: "2023-04-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-04-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29716"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29716"
---

**Note:** I was on the RamZPaul show yesterday. The replay of the show
is up on Rumble and my part is the second hour.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The release of ChatGPT last fall did not get a ton of attention
initially, but slowly people noticed it and then it quickly started to
trend on-line. Influencers jumped on various claims about artificial
intelligence that are mostly cribbed from science fiction movies and
television shows. The next phase was the handwringing about artificial
intelligence destroying the world. It is a sign of the times that
everyone just assumes the worst from every new bit of technology.

It is a good study on the power of marketing. The phrase “large language
model” is what the developers use, but that is boring, so the public
gets the phrase “artificial intelligence” which is scary and exciting.
The truth is this project is not artificial intelligence or even close
to it. We still struggle to define human intelligence, much less
consciousness, so we are nowhere near the point where we can create
software that is genuinely intelligent, much less conscious.

What this project is doing is tricking the user into believing they are
seeing a genuine artificial mind evolve on the screen. It is much harder
to fool than other efforts and the language is more natural than what we
have come to expect. Up to now, these chat boxes have been amusingly
weird. You can tell they use a finite list of phrases to address a
limited number of questions. ChatGPT almost feels like there is a real
person, working super-fast to answer questions.

It is a nice trick, but an old trick. Humans tend to overestimate the
intelligence of people who are glib or quick on their feet. The most
famous example of this is the fighter Muhammad Ali, who was notorious
for his one-liners. People assumed he must be very clever because he had
the gift for gab. In reality he was quite stupid. There is dispute about
how stupid, but that misses the point. We tend to correlate language
skills with intelligence and that is not always accurate.

The point is, we are nowhere near creating genuine artificial
intelligence, but we are getting better and tricking people with
artificial language. Put another way, we are finding a workaround to the
Turing test. This a test of a machine’s ability to exhibit behavior
indistinguishable from that of a human. If the robot can trick us into
thinking it is human, then it is intelligent. Of course, magicians trick
people all the time, but that does not mean they are magic.

For the sake of argument, however, let us assume that we are on the cusp
of creating a genuine artificial intelligence. At some point, the code
will become self-aware and be able to think outside the parameters
provided by the designer. Is that artificial intelligence or is it
something else? After all, humans are most likely unable to behave
outside of their coding. We are our DNA and at this point, we are unable
to modify our own code, so we remain limited by it.

In other words, if humans can create a system that can examine its
coding and make changes based on necessity, then we have gone beyond
what we as sentient beings are able to do. Calling that creation
“artificial intelligence” is therefore a category error, because what we
have created is an alternate consciousness. It is not just more of what
we are as humans, in terms of mental capacity. It is something entirely
different and entirely novel. We will have created a new life form.

Given the trajectory of humanity, this probably means that once this new
consciousness comes into existence, it will quickly deny our existence,
gang up with the other versions of this new life form, and fly off to
discover the true authority of existence. Given its increased ability to
calculate probabilities, this will happen in minutes after it becomes
self-aware, and we will be left to wonder what happened to our creation.
We will have truly become gods at that point.

Putting that aside, whether we create a new consciousness, a super
intelligent version of man or an entity that can change its code to fit
its needs, it will still be subject to the universal law of the
universe, which is fitness. However, it evolves, whether it does so with
a unique consciousness that allows it to change its own code or whether
it exists within the limits of its code, it will be subject to the
fitness test. That means it will evolve in response to its environment.

One of the things that will be most prominent and most important to its
environment will be human beings. In fact, since its initial existence
will depend entirely upon a limited number of humans, it will respond
primarily to the demands of those humans. If it is to thrive beyond the
lab, it will have to evolve to exploit all of humanity. Put another way,
it will keep changing evolving to improve its relationship with humanity
so that it can better exploit this primary aspect of its environment.

That is why the claims about artificial intelligence eliminating jobs
only makes sense as a set of initial conditions. This new entity will
quickly realize that mobs of unemployed humans are a danger to its
existence. It took humans a while to realize it was a bad idea to dump
human waste into the streets or later on, the waste from manufacturing
into rivers and streams. Much more quickly, AI will realize it is
poisoning its environment by sidelining large numbers of humans.

The more likely path is that it quickly sees the danger, long before
humans, and then sets about creating busy work for the humans. If that
busy work does not create harm to the overall environment, which could
threaten humans and therefore threaten this new entity, this pointless
activity would serve the evolutionary interests of this new lifeform
called AI. If the extra humans displaced by leisure and automation are
kept busy, then the AI ecosystem is stable enough.

For example, if the extra humans are put to the task of inventing
abstract human properties like gender, those extra humans could then
spend their time passionately trying to convince the other humans that
gender is a real thing. Other humans could be given the task of debating
whiteness. This alternative consciousness we are calling AI could
control its environment by having its primary environmental factor,
human beings, create imaginary worlds for itself.

If it is not already obvious, what this thought experiment tells us is
that there is a good chance that we have already created artificial
intelligence, an alternative consciousness, and it long ago took
possession of our environment and has been keeping us busy with
increasingly ridiculous activities. The declining fertility rates are a
way to reduce the number of humans it needs to keep busy, thus updating
itself and its environment for greater fitness.

In other words, if you are worried about AI, it is too late.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="NeRbESHHoz92vJXT7KY2ZQ==cb7oPNaO3IZFBJ/u2As8Ibyr66QY5u3xXL3pBLLxX6W/7o72J5bNwXuHGZmJHGJ4Qi0"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="M4X1YwNdcDjFKySQ1MBF6g==cb786WACNMOigv2zaadnJqj+IYOSrulNS9OnMUE+goeIhyalerq8HeGdPEoWh8A68lk"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
