---
title: "Why They Hate Us"
date: "2023-03-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-03-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29600"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29600"
---

Paul Gottfried has a <a
href="https://amgreatness.com/2023/03/27/do-white-leftists-really-hate-themselves/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> up on the topic of elite whites
incessantly condemning white people for alleged crimes against
nonwhites. A feature of the current crisis is a rich white person,
usually a woman, wagging a bony finger at white people for the alleged
crimes of their ancestors. Of course, these white people always live in
the whitest areas and rarely interact with nonwhites. This always brings
the charge of hypocrisy from the sorts of people who think this matters.

The question that white civic nationalists ask themselves when
confronted by this strange behavior is whether the antiwhite scolds
believe it. The practical brains of the people attracted to civic
nationalism cannot accept anything but a practical answer to the
question of motivation. The antiwhite scolds must see some profit in
this behavior so they are cynically exploiting it. They do not actually
believe what they are saying, which explains how they live.

Gottfried offers up an alternative to this thesis. These antiwhite
scolds are acting from some form of self-loathing. Eric Hoffer made this
observation seventy years ago in his book *The True Believer*. People
who join causes tend to do so because they have a desire for
self-abnegation. This is driven by a hatred of their natural identity
and a desire to swap it for some other identity. The group identity then
becomes their own, which is why they so viciously defend the group.

By way of example, Gottfried points out that Hitler once socialized with
Jews in Vienna when he was trying to find his way in the world. The
great enemy of the Jewish people once admired the tastes and attitudes
of the people he came to loath. He later protected an old family friend,
the family doctor, from his own polices. The argument here is that
Hitler’s hatred for Jews was driven by hating himself for secretly
admiring the Jewish people and their cultural outputs.

Occam’s razor says that Hitler, like the rest of the Nazis who promoted
anti-Semitic polices, were like all humans in that they could hate
something in the abstract, but also admire it in the particular. There
are plenty of Israelis who have Arab friends, but also support the
extermination of the Arab population in Palestine. Humans operate by
general rules but then make exceptions to those rules as circumstances
and their own emotional and moral needs dictate.

Putting the Hitler business aside, the question remains. How is it that
someone like Elizabeth Warren can wag her bony finger at us about our
white privilege, while she enjoys a lifestyle free of diversity? How is
it that Sandy Cortez presents herself as the woke warrioress while
married to a guy who looks like he should be leading the New York City
St. Patrick’s Day parade? Ilhan Omar divorced her brother so she could
shack up with a guy who looks white to Jared Taylor.

All of the antiwhite stuff comes from people who are as white as a Klan
rally or clearly infatuated with whiteness. The model of the universe
held by the typical white American cannot explain this bizarre
phenomenon. This is why they tend to start chanting the word “hypocrisy”
even though the target is immune to the charge. That there is a clue as
to what is going on with these people. For the antiwhite scolds, there
is nothing hypocritical about what they are doing. It makes perfect
sense.

The place to start here is understanding what they mean by white. It is
not skin tone or even ethnic heritage, but rather a state of mind.
Elizabeth Warren feels no shame or remorse about defrauding at least one
university about her heritage, because as far as she is concerned, her
lived experience says she is an Indian. She is not white because she has
lived as a nonwhite, therefore society has treated her as a nonwhite, so
her lived experience is as a nonwhite.

Even for those who cannot do this mental jujitsu, the mere fact that
they accept that whiteness is a social condition is enough for them to
see themselves as nonwhite, even though they are ghostly white. It is
hard for normal people to accept this, but people with a need to believe
in something have an amazing capacity to believe in the most creative
and egregious nonsense. Anti-whiteness fills a need for these people, so
they find a way to passionately believe in it.

That gets to a much more complicated part of this. What is the void that
needs to be filled and is being filled by anti-whiteness? That is
answered by asking, why is it that a mediocre lawyer is a senior
senator? Why is it that a former barmaid is now the most famous
Democratic in the House? What justifies the exalted position of the
people who populate the managerial class? It is not smarts or
achievement, so how is it that we are ruled by a collection of
mediocrities?

That is where these secular fads come into the picture. Elizabeth Warren
feels justified in her scolding because she fervently believes all the
things the beautiful people believe, which places her on the side of
angels. The anti-whiteness is not the point. It is the embrace of it and
the thorough understanding of the language it employs that demonstrates
the piety of the person espousing it. They could just as easily hate
broccoli as they do whiteness. It is the hate that matters.

This is the final stop on the managerial train. A system that seemingly
selects people at random and places them into positions of authority and
status results in people in these positions looking for a justification
for their good luck. Since they cannot accept random chance as the
answer, they latch onto every passing fad that promises to justify their
position with regards to the rest of us. Who they are is not us, which
is proved by their enthusiasm for hatred of us.

This is why their reaction to one of their social experiments murdering
children at a Christian school was so vulgar. That need to not be us
required them to no share in the general horror of the event. It is why
the NYTimes
<a href="https://twitter.com/nytimes/status/1640508409542848519"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">found</a> the first opportunity they
could to side with the killer. It is why they are now rallying around an
imaginary <a
href="https://www.nbcnews.com/nbc-out/out-news/fear-pervades-tennessees-trans-community-focus-nashville-shooters-gend-rcna77066"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">narrative</a> about a brewing backlash.
Who they are is not us, so anything that amplifies that is embraced,
which is why anti-whiteness is so popular with them.

This is why there is no reasoning with these people. You cannot bargain
with them or appeal to their humanity. Who they are literally depends on
them hating us. Like the people on the top floors of the office
building, making fun of the rank and file, our ruler’s sense of identity
is now tied to hating the people over whom they rule. For them, their
life literally depends on hating normal white people. As we saw
yesterday, for the rest of us, our lives now depend on hating them back.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="WnI17er9+6vQPmEejIOhjg==cb7ukrsiJ7oE2t49hb+w76Vz+pYdjFUOyvMdDtMHH4a+uwYxvfnKdrdeXI6IdN+Cclm"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="tJUpqaAqU6XcBpKi2gmXWg==cb7d7Jk8TC9SGdI+3IQIaNIH9hF6utoMm3o/dsZqXwsUJeVOMnt37vKlyylQWAL9u2N"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
