---
title: "Manna From Heaven"
date: "2023-10-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30934"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30934"
---

One of the many problems with most conspiracy theories is they contain a
central contradiction on which the theory depends. Usually, it is of the
type where the villain is both omnisciently genius and incredibly
stupid. The “deep state”, for example, is able to know every thought and
action of every person, but they have been outwitted by the collection
of aluminum foil hat guys. The central villains of most conspiracy
theories are the same people who built the Death Star in Star Wars.

Another big problem with conspiracy theories is they confuse opportunism
with skillful planning, as we see with the fighting in the Levant. The
internet is full of theories about how Mossad or the IDF or Netanyahu
deliberately let Hamas stage that raid so they could use the ensuing
crisis to advance their agenda. The real goal was to clear out Gaza or
maybe instigate a wider war in the region. Like 9/11, this attack was a
five-cushion bank shot by the deep state.

In reality, the most likely answer for how this started is stupidity.
Israel politics have been a mess for a long time now due to
demographics. The Mizrahi Jews, sometimes called Oriental Jews, are
those who never left the region. They are growing in number and pollical
power. As a group grows in power, it tends to come at the expense of
another group, or it is perceived as such. In Israel, the group
threatened by the Mizrahi are the Ashkenazi, who dominate the ruling
elite.

One result of this growing internal conflict is the Jewish state is not
working as well as people have come to expect. The reputation of the
Jewish security apparatus was made in the wars with the Arabs but also
in support of the neocon wars against the Arabs during the Bush years.
As is always the case, success brings complacency and that is how they
got the Hamas raid. The Israelis were caught letting their guard down
and the result was the Hamas raid.

That does not mean they are letting a crisis go to waste. The
Dresden-like assault being waged on Gaza is one example. It is
unnecessary and gratuitous, but it does sure up support in Washington,
where the neocons are desperate for a win. The site of blown-up
buildings and dead Palestinians not only gives people like Ben Shapiro
some cheap thrills, but it also gives him a reason to whip his white
audience into a frenzy of support for the war machine and its neocon
operators.

It is also good for the Washington establishment. It feels like old
times in the imperial capital and that is just what the doctor ordered.
The rebels in the House GOP caucus have been silenced because we are at
war now and no one has time for their complaints about corruption and
Republican perfidy. The result is the compliant Kevin McCarthy will be
replaced by the equally compliant Steve Scalise as Speaker, rather than
the more independent Jim Jordan.

It is also giving Washington an excuse to cut Ukraine loose. All of a
sudden no one is taking those calls from Zelensky. In between sobbing
fits, White House spokesbot John Kirby
<a href="https://twitter.com/Existenzse/status/1712173806821810412"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">made clear</a> that Israel is now the
priority. He said that “we are coming to the end of the rope on Ukraine
funding” which is very bad news for Ukraine. That was a signal to regime
media to wrap up their “coverage” of the war and put the whole thing on
ignore and instead focus on this new war in the Levant.

This is also a golden opportunity for the Pentagon. The imperial war
machine was not built to fight a land war against a peer. This has been
rather embarrassing for them over the last year in the Ukraine war. From
a public relations perspective, Ukraine has been terrible for the
Pentagon. Now, they can switch back to their preferred role of bombing
lightly armed militias. This has the added benefit of getting the flag
waving yahoos excited for the war machine again.

The biggest winner in this could be the neocons who have been searching
for a way to get invited back into the Republican Party. As everyone
knows, a neocon cannot enter your house uninvited, so they have been
searching for a way to get the Republicans to throw out the welcome mat
for them. This is proving to be just the ticket, as every presidential
candidate is now in a race to the sea in an effort to be the most
bellicose with regards to killing Muslims.

This has the added benefit of letting them use their version of no
enemies to the right, which they successfully used in the Bush years.
You see, this new threat to America in the Levant is too important to
risk dissent. That means Donald Trump and his criticisms of the party
have to go so the more serious people like Nikki Haley can lead the
party against Joe Biden and his Iranian deal makers. The fact that team
Biden is run by the Kagan cult, just like Nikki Haley, will be ignored.

Of course, what will follow is new limits on speech online. The usual
suspects are demanding that the social media platforms ban anyone
questioning the official narrative on the war. Anyone doubting the crazy
stories, for example, will be smeared as an apologist for Hamas. Maybe
even an antisemite. In an ideological society, the bogeyman is always a
reason to crush dissent and the regime now has a fresh new and familiar
bogeyman, so the results are predictable.

That is the thing about ideological societies. The ruling elite can
always take advantage of a crisis because it exists to manage crisis.
Whether it is in containing counter-revolutionary forces or the
inevitable crisis that arises from the irrationality of the ideology,
the first task of a ruling class in an ideological society is to use
every crisis as a means to advance the interest of the regime. Once
Hamas parachuted into Israel, the regime had a crisis and they never let
a crisis go to waste.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="3VcrxeUORpsMKi8mEomujQ==cb7KGsIMHjCdYT7YUbIrjg3kIBGBwKezOB/3DpN/0hi8lyBXiJs23swRDJRyCceZOD0"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Ztjw5Z9VvC6tnCdNb5R45g==cb7ntuhV51w5XrcbqFwaMyVEM7dR9BOGaZKx2TNdd8RPSM2I7/0zzVwE8RXArl4uomh"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
