---
title: "Belief And Democracy"
date: "2023-12-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31268"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31268"
---

**Note:** For those into literary fiction, there is a relatively new
publisher in Texas that would like your attention. They asked me to post
a link to their site. Presumably they know what they are asking, so here
is their <a href="http://www.fallingmarbles.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">site</a>. With Winter Solstice upon us, maybe there is a
gift for the literary person in your life.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The willingness to accept something as true, without evidence to support
it, is the essence of belief. Someone tells you something and you can
either accept what is said as true or reject it, without having much to
go on because people rarely layout factual cases for the things they
say. Your buddy at the office tells you he heard layoffs are coming, but
his only proof is where he heard it. You have to decide whether to
accept what he says or reject it, based on other factors.

Belief is the thing at the center of religion, culture, and ideology.
You grow up learning about Wotan and his wandering. You accept it as
true, even though there is never any evidence to support the existence
of Wotan. You became a communist because you learned about historical
materialism, and it explained everything. You continue to celebrate
Christmas, despite being a pagan communist, because you were told it is
what your people do regardless of their religion.

Biologically, belief is assumed to be one of modern man’s oldest traits.
Belief, which is often confused with religion, probably co-evolved with
language. Taken together it allows for humans to pass along complex and
abstract ideas from one place to another and one generation to another.
You can read the Epic of Gilgamesh today, in your native language, and
learn something about the people who produced it. The abstract concepts
traveled over time and place to you.

To get a better sense of the power of belief, think about a race of
humans that is devoid of belief so all claims must be backed by proof.
Children grow up demanding proof of everything said by their parents.
School children demand proof of every assertion made by their teachers.
The boss of the corporation is required to prove that diversity is the
company’s greatest strength. Humans would never have made it out of the
trees without a willingness to believe what they are told.

Like most human traits, belief seems to operate on a spectrum. Everyone
knows a gullible person who trusts everyone. Then you have the devout
person who accepts everything about her particular religion. On the
other hand, we have the skeptic who is willing to question claims that
seem a bit over the top. This person is different from the cynic, who
assumes everything is a lie. The bulk of people lie between the serious
skeptic and the generally trusting.

Belief is probably why democracy ends in disaster. The point of
democracy is to have policies that reflect the general will of the
people. In theory this means figuring out what most people will accept.
You cannot make everyone happy, even in a small group ordering in lunch,
but you can make most people happy and those outliers happy enough so
they do not revolt. In theory, democracy is ordering pizza for lunch
because no one hates it and most people like it.

In reality, democracy quickly turns into a game of convincing the
majority to go along with whatever benefits the few. If you and your
conspirators can get fifty percent plus one to agree to your scheme, it
will be very good for you. Of course, others have their schemes so that
democracy quickly moves from understanding the will of the people to
persuading the majority. In reality, democracy is ordering Chinese after
having convinced the majority that it is the right choice.

That phrase “right choice” is critical. It is never about facts and
reason, but about the morally correct choice. Democracy rests on the
assertion that the morally correct choice is that which satisfies the
needs and demands of most people. Therefore, the way to persuade someone
is to convince them that the majority already believes whatever it is
you are pitching. In practice, democracy is telling each person that
everyone really wants Chinese, except those troublemakers in the pizza
party.

This is where belief comes into the room. In such conditions, the true
believer will always have an advantage over the skeptic and especially
the cynic because the fanatic shares the language and thought processes
of the typical believer. Since most people are generally willing to
believe what is told to them, as long as the source has some trust
capital, the fanatic shares with the typical person that willingness to
believe, even if it is in the extreme. The fanatic speaks the common
language.

The skeptic, on the other hand, lacks the ability to naturally
communicate with the typical person because he questions what is
asserted. The skeptic is not trafficking in alternative beliefs but in
the lack of belief. This naturally means the audience willing to hear
his questions is smaller than that of the fanatic. The cynic is
trafficking in the denial of belief, so his market is the smallest. It
is why the word cynic has a negative connotation in our democratic
societies.

In the game of persuasion, the true believer starts with an enormous
advantage because the majority is tuned to believe. There are enough
skeptics to force the fanatics to make their case, but they get to make
their case in moral terms, rather than factual ones, which is why they
so often carry the day. Humans would rather do the morally right thing
than the empirically right thing. This reality of the human condition is
why democracy falls prey to fanatics and charlatans.

There is another piece to this. Humans in the main are believing
machines so they will believe in something. This provides another
advantage for the fanatic. In the absence of a better belief, the
typical person will still listen to the fanatic, despite his many
factual errors, until a better set of beliefs come along. Since the
skeptic is never selling belief, but merely questioning it, he never
reaps the rewards of his successful questioning of the fanatic. A new
fanatic always steps into that breech.

It is why fanatics and charlatans have come to dominate Western
countries. Since the Cold War, the West has embraced the idea of
democracy, which has unleashed the fanatics and charlatans, who in turn
promote democracy as the only moral choice, because it is the manure
that fertilizes them. The death spiral of the West is the death spiral
of every democracy. Without hard limits, the people will follow fanatics
promising salvation until there is nothing left to save.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="o4zUb/G6JGasQP/N010u8A==cb7W29u7v8J6guv4o9hKDhI6bJ6joWr+JwpLZPY2NAH4qiI0nEFmKbTZQaYegANdwfM"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ULLO3Q5KEBHzbub9QIQqvw==cb7C7pDI1lHFYUFYNGaeawwrnPvxBpk55bBfs8z4pbY+4ugDVyvkzjUVz9xfUwpOHKI"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
