---
title: "The Antiracist White Nationalist"
date: "2023-07-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-07-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Race
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30437"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30437"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about the rise and fall of
Nick Fuentes, a review of the classic buddy comedy *Butch Cassidy and
the Sundance Kid,* and the Sunday podcast. You can sign up for a green
door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

With some obvious exceptions, the people who use the term “white
nationalist” use it to mean “people they do not like.” These are people
who imbue their language with emotional meaning, rather than descriptive
meaning. Just as Eskimos supposedly have a long list of ways to describe
snow, the people fond of using the term “white nationalist” have a long
list of words for people outside of their cult. The term has no meaning
other than “danger! danger!” to the rest of the cult.

Before the term became a cult signal, it used to have meaning. A white
nationalist is an American term for a white person who wants to live in
communities free of nonwhites, especially black people. Having lost the
fight over “civil rights” in the middle of the last century, and not
understanding the implications of it, these people organized around the
idea of separate lands for people of European descent. They want
intentional communities organized around race.

Of course, the people who use the term “white nationalist” as a slur
acknowledge that the people calling themselves white nationalists
primarily want a white homeland exclusively for white people, but they
also claim the reason for this desire is an irrational hatred of
nonwhites, especially blacks and Jews. In this way, the term “white
nationalists” is shorthand for people who hate nonwhites. It is why you
can be a <a
href="https://www.thenation.com/article/society/mauricio-garcia-white-supremacy/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">nonwhite white nationalist</a> now.

Putting aside the bizarre claims by the usual suspects, if we assume
that white nationalists want to live away from nonwhites, then it makes
sense that the areas with the least number of nonwhites are the areas
with the greatest number of white nationalists or at least white
nationalist sympathies. In fact, this assumption is a cornerstone of
civil rights law. Diversity is a moral good, so it is the standard
against which people and organizations are judged.

For example, if you want to find the state that like black people the
least, you will look for the state with the smallest black population. A
state with few black people is, at the minimum, unwelcoming to black
people, so they do not move there. The most likely reason for the
unwelcome mat is the locals do not like black people. By this reasoning,
Montana is the most racist state in America. Look at this <a
href="https://worldpopulationreview.com/state-rankings/black-population-by-state"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">map</a> and you see ten states that have
a black population below three percent.

Interestingly, half of those states voted for Joe Biden in the last
election and half voted for Donald Trump. Eight of the ten states with
the highest black population voted for Donald Trump and are reliably
Republican. This is often pointed to as proof that white nationalism is
all about hating blacks, because these states are where we tend to find
people who call themselves white nationalists. They say familiarity
breeds contempt, but it may also breed white nationalism.

A more granular way of looking at this is by congressional district. The
most far-left district in the country is New York’s 15th Congressional
District. It is ninety-seven percent diverse, but the largest group is
Hispanic. The second most left-wing district is New York’s 13th
Congressional District, which is fourteen percent white. Number nine on
the list is Nancy Pelosi’s old haunt. It is just four percent diverse.
There are many such examples on the <a
href="https://stacker.com/politics/bluest-congressional-districts-america"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">top-50 antiracist congressional
districts</a>.

Interestingly, when you do the same <a
href="https://worldpopulationreview.com/state-rankings/jewish-population-by-state"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">exercise</a> for Jews, you find that the
states with the smallest Jewish population vote Republican. The one
exception is Florida which is number eight on the list, but trends
Republican. That said, there are many solidly Democratic states that
have a tiny Jewish populations. Outside of a few states, the Jewish
population is so small that they go unnoticed. You are more likely to
meet an alien abductee in Oklahoma than meet a Jewish person.

What this tells us is that if you are a white nationalist, you want to
move to Montana, Wyoming, or Utah. These three states are in the bottom
ten in terms of black population and Jewish population. Mitt Romney is
the face of white nationalism. Of course, if you set the Jewish
threshold at one percent, then the world is your oyster, as long as you
do not mind the daily antiracist lectures from your all-white neighbors
in places like Oregon, Vermont, Maine, and New Hampshire.

This runs counter to the official narrative, but it is something people
have observed for generations with regards to antiracism. The higher the
percentage of blacks in any given area, the lower the percentage of
antiracists and the higher the percentage of accused white nationalists.
On the other hand, the lower the percentage of black people, the higher
the percentage of white antiracists. If you want to live like a white
nationalist but sound like an antiracist, move to Oregon.

When you look at the data, something else becomes clear. The states that
are most reliably Republican are those with the highest black
populations. It speaks to the racialization of white politics. If you
are black, you vote Democratic no matter where you live or how you live.
Whites, in contrast, vote Republican if they are in close proximity to
enough blacks to form a community. Maryland and Delaware are the
exceptions, but there are larger factors at play in both states.

This is something that drove the flight of white people from the cities
into the suburbs in the last century. As black populations grew in
American cities, there reached a tipping point where whites began to
abandon the city altogether. The legendary quantitative blogger La
Griffe du Lion
<a href="http://www.lagriffedulion.f2s.com/hood.htm" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">analyzed</a> this with regards to urban crime. Once the
black population in a city reached twenty percent, white crime
victimization soared and white flight to the suburbs soon followed.

The great paleoconservative writer Joe Sobran said, “In their mating and
migratory habits, liberals are indistinguishable from members of the Ku
Klux Klan.” This was true in the sense that they talk like MLK but live
like the KKK. The thing is though, the people labeled as the KKK tend to
live closer to the antiracist ideal. The typical “white nationalist”
will meet more black people at her grocery store than the typical
antiracist will meet in his lifetime.

What all this tells us is that the racialization of politics has
resulted in a bizarre cognitive dissonance among the most active
participants. The most race aware white people live in the most diverse
places. The most antiracist white people live in places that are so
white they glow in the dark. What this suggests if you are worried about
becoming a white nationalist is you should move to Oregon or Vermont.
The surest way to not become a white nationalist is never meet a black
person.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="y1musE5GFkSLrDkyNwlSBg==cb7VbVg9vbkARLUZuTsFwC+AWtdGgQwnAFTSVJq2bBEeOJzCHWDpDQy2+hxK6mmOQi/"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Yv73XWQcO8DThRq0kP/b2Q==cb7U772GM89+W7kKPCkXC13JRPzPTlsfWGJrB/l+Dc4zP2JFD8/Mc/k9zg6aMnIlWc7"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
