---
title: "Imagination Land"
date: "2023-05-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-05-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29900"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29900"
---

One of the strange and unnoticed aspects of the modern age is how much
time is spent debating imaginary things. In fact, most of our public
debates are about things that may happen or could never possibly happen.
The things that are actually happening get very little attention. In
some cases, like the ongoing criminal operations of the Biden family,
the only people discussing them are “conspiracy theorists”, a term that
has been transformed to describe imaginary villains.

In fact, much of what passes for public debate is the shift from things
that are real and observable in the present moment to things that do not
exist. Crackpot libertarian congressman Thomas Massie spends most of his
time warning about a highly unlikely problem with E-Verify, so that his
voters do not notice the waves of migrant invaders filling up their
cities and towns. He is not alone. Every politician is an illusionist
now, making reality disappear behind a curtain of deceit.

What has happened to modern American society is a form of the Peter Pan
syndrome, in that society prefers to live in a world of make believe,
rather than face up to the tough choices that come with adulthood.
Libertarian kooks would rather think about a world governed by the
non-aggression principle than think about the problems that the current
world is presenting to us. Ten thousand migrants a day cross the border,
but libertarian guy is concerned about theoretical abuses of state
power.

It is not just libertarian kooks who avoid reality. It is a system-wide
phenomenon that now defines our public life. Trillions are being spent
on climate change, which probably exists as a concept. We know the
earth’s climate is always changing. As a real threat to humanity,
however, it exists only in the imagination. Given the <a
href="https://www.science.org/content/article/fake-scientific-papers-are-alarmingly-common"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">rampant fraud</a> in the world of
science, it is possible that everything about climate change is a lie,
yet we are pretending that it is a real as a rose bush.

To fight climate change, governments are putting mandates on carmakers
to force them to make electric cars. The people who produced this
mandate have no idea if this makes any sense or is even possible. In
fact, it is not possible. We do not have enough lithium, for example, to
make the required batteries. Our power grid will have collapsed long
before that is an issue. In fact, it is already happening. We are
spending trillions on climate change while the power grid is failing.

Imagine a politician running on a platform of upgrading the power grid.
He promises to improve reliability and toughen it against storms. Many
of the lines will be put underground to improve aesthetics. This could
never happen because his opponent would instead promise to use the money
for “gender affirming care” or maybe combat racist road systems. She
would win in a landslide because who cares about the power lines when
imaginary problems need our attention?

Imagination land is so powerful, it even warps the mundane things. <a
href="https://www.cbssports.com/college-basketball/news/west-virginia-suspends-coach-bob-huggins-reduces-salary-1-million-for-using-homophobic-slur-on-radio/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here</a> is a story about a sportsball
coach who used salty language in public. It was rude and he apologized
for it. In the world of real things, this would be enough, but in the
world of imaginary things, he must be punished. Imaginary people were
traumatized, maybe even physically harmed by his words. According to his
boss, the imaginary people now have scars that cannot be seen, because
they are not real.

Much has been made of the public apology in these matters. It is a weird
ritual that never has the intended effect. The coach just got fined
millions of dollars for harming imaginary people, despite his real
groveling. What gets missed is these apologies are always directed at
people who do not exist. In the material world, you apologize to a
person who you can identify as a victim of your actions. In imagination
land you apologize to imaginary people for imaginary crimes.

Last month, Douglas Mackey was found guilty in Federal court of
violating the civil rights of people who do not exist. The government
claimed that his tweets mocking Hillary Clinton voters in 2016 harmed
these people. They produced no one claiming to have been harmed by these
tweets. They did not establish that such a harm was even possible, but
that did not matter. In imagination land, anything is possible. When
anything is possible, you go to jail for imaginary crimes.

Another example of how imagination land now crowds out the world of
reality is the Bud Light marketing fiasco. The people who cooked up the
idea were sure that there are millions of crossdressers desperate for a
beer that appeals to them, so they created a campaign around a
crossdresser. The fact that in the real world there are more left-handed
ginger midgets than men who wear dresses did not matter. In imagination
land, the crossdresser is the future.

Everywhere you look in the modern age, the imaginary is crowding out the
real, as if everyone is now terrified of reality. The media fills the
zone with terrifying stories of disinformation campaigns and hate speech
be imaginary actors, while ignoring the tsunami of lies that comes from
the government. More time has been spent trying to pretend a brown guy
is a white supremacist than looking into the very real problem of the
Biden family taking <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2023/05/10/politics/comer-bank-records-biden-family-members-payments-foreign-entities/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">bribes</a> from foreign governments.

The usual suspects rush in at this point and claim it is all a plot by
the “deep state” or some other catchphrase to get money and power. As
ridiculous as this age has become, one has to leave open the possibility
that we live in a simulation controlled by men living in a hollowed-out
volcano. Alternatively, maybe Wells was right when he noted “It is a law
of nature we overlook, that intellectual versatility is the compensation
for change, danger, and trouble.”

Generations of easy living, living outside the world “change, danger,
and trouble” has turned us into Eloi. Our triumphs over the material
problems of human existence have left us incapable of dealing with the
reality of human existence. If we just wish hard enough, they will go
away. If not, then we just fill our minds with the pleasing conflicts
that exist only in imagination land. We are a society of helpless
children determined to remain children regardless of the demands of
reality.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="y3Ee9JKjmLR6QZE7FhAgmw==cb78OPOtyPFGG3p6Ax+a9sehyOR6OiSV8HCIote3IfwZr50KOoP7HNT5JgMi4uAr0TM"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="jiRLo3IMY6Ui85tOVMkzuA==cb7mZR/Q6ne8JWW99jYEQAOlb0bA715Mhy+Y0Lvn0W1rCXMqp9aDC32r3Ze4mN8NIPJ"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
