---
title: "Winter In Kiev"
date: "2023-11-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-11-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31162"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31162"
---

The war in Ukraine is heading into the winter with the great
counter-offensive all but officially declared a great failure. After six
months of attacks, the Ukrainians gained a small sliver of ground in the
south and lost a large swath of territory in the north, along with
billions in Western equipment. Outside of small ventures to keep up
appearances, Ukraine is no longer conducting offensive operations. The
big question that looms over all of it is what comes next for Ukraine?

The place to start is the battlefield. The Russians have the initiative
everywhere now and they seem to be preparing the battlefield for winter.
They are about to take the fortress city of Avdeevka in Donetsk and
there are reports that they have fire control of the key logistics hub
in the north called Kupyansk. There are also increasing reports of
desertions on the Ukrainian side as the Russians press them nonstop.
Right now, the Ukraine army is doing what it can to hold its positions.

This is an untenable position for Ukraine as the politics of this war
are such that they must always be looking like they have the initiative.
This is why so much time and money were invested in the public relations
system. Ukraine needed to look like it was winning the war and that
meant flooding Western media with stories about Ukrainian success on the
battlefield. <a
href="https://english.elpais.com/international/2023-11-13/under-siege-on-the-ukrainian-front-line-of-avdiivka-russians-are-more-prepared-for-war-and-to-die.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Stories</a> about Ukrainians desperately
clinging to bombed out fortress cities is poison for the public
relations system.

There are three angles to the politics. One is the internal politics of
Ukraine, which at this point is the struggle between the military,
Zelensky and the secret police, all of whom have friends in Washington.
It is assumed they need to be showing progress on the battlefield in
order to keep the money flowing. The fallback plan in these cases is
always the same and that is find a scapegoat. You blame that guy for the
failures and buy another round of funding the operation.

Rumors out of Kiev suggest Zelensky wants to fire his top general,
Zaluzhnyi, and the head of operations in the south, Oleksandr Syrskyi.
Last week there were rumors that both had been arrested then there were
rumors that they were in hiding. Officially, nothing has happened, but
Zelensky no longer uses their names in public, instead referring to
their titles. That is the only hard evidence that something is
happening, but it confirms that there is a rift of some sort.

For his part, Zaluzhnyi has made no bones about telling Western media
that the offensive failed and the situation is dire. The reason to do
this is to publicly undermine Zelensky who always insists that things
are going great in the war. The result here is you have Zelensky trying
to pin the blame on Zaluzhnyi, while Zaluzhnyi tries to undermine the
credibility of Zelensky. You do not have to be a political genius to see
where this is heading if things deteriorate much further.

This is why CIA director William Burns was <a
href="https://asiatimes.com/2023/11/cia-boss-heads-for-z-day-in-kyiv-as-ukraine-falters/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">sent</a> to Kiev last week. One school of
thought says he was sent to calm the situation, while another school of
thought says he was sent to get a frank assessment of what is happening.
This seems strange, given that the whole war is a Washington operation,
but it is clear that the Ukrainians have not been entirely forthright
with Washington. This is most likely at the behest of the State
Department, which has been running things on the side.

That brings up the second political angle. Washington has been poached
in a warm bath of public relations nonsense for two years, so the
reality of the war is now just starting to appear in the media. With an
election on the horizon and Biden in serious trouble, mentally and
politically, bad news from Ukraine is very bad news. That is probably
part of what Burns is up to in Kiev. If the White House needs to abandon
the Ukraine project, they need a plan to do it.

The third political angle is the money. The Ukraine project is and has
been a very lucrative money laundering operation. This means it has a
very large lobbying effort behind it, so cutting off the money will be
difficult. On the other hand, sending unknown billions through a failing
operation, one that could be overrun by the Russian army very soon, is a
tough sell even for Washington. Therefore, pressure is on to produce a
new winning narrative to keep the money flowing.

This is why the Republicans are going to move heaven and earth to get <a
href="https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/congressional-leaders-are-aiming-pass-ukraine-israel-supplemental-aid-rcna125845"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">fresh cash</a> into the money laundering
system. If the cash runs out, not only does the money laundering end,
but it also means the end of Ukraine in a hurry. Ukraine no longer has a
functioning economy and it is no longer able to pay for its own
government services. If money from Washington and Brussels stops
flowing, Ukraine will collapse in weeks. This kills project Ukraine for
future money laundering.

The result of all this is all the players now see the status quo as the
only workable option, even if the battlefield reality says otherwise.
Zelensky knows he cannot kill Russians with dollar bills, but dollar
bills keep him alive. At the same time, Washington thinks they can
pretend it is a stalemate as long as Zelensky remains in charge, so
giving him money works for them. Of course, the money laundering machine
wants the cash to keep flowing for its own sake.

The trouble is the reality on the battlefield. The Ukrainians officially
mobilized three quarters of a million men. They have less than half that
number remaining. There are pictures of girls and old men turning up
dead in trenches now. There is only so much damage an army can take
before it begins to crack. The politics of the war point to maintaining
the status quo, but the reality of it is pointing to collapse. That is
what lies ahead for Ukraine in 2024.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="zcJRZyB+C4RFhwp9BnIqUg==cb7NJL1geYLfW+EDps3cyqcmqV6HgWZT9lsD//ZaeZ+W4MJt7qLUyiTTlYxHsqlfz4w"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="rH6HQ0/RKaDQ79RCSUaOrA==cb7AQvZGleVpKRxIzMEnKr5kPBmYt2wI3n8MGf95VUvdHSMs4ESZauldz4tJT0/Pmpc"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
