---
title: "The Night Of The Cobra"
date: "2023-12-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31246"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31246"
---

The fourth and allegedly final Republican debate was held last night,
featuring the final four contestants for the right to be the party
nominee. The plot of these shows is to showcase the alternatives to
Trump. The subtext is the not-so-secret plot by Washington to have the
party remove Trump from the ballot, so one of these losers will get
selected to fill the slot. What we have been getting instead is a fairly
good example of systemic incompetence by the political class.

Last night’s show is a perfect example. To this point, Vivek Ramaswamy,
the King Cobra, has been the glib youngster, making fun of the old
squares on stage. He is glib and smart, but most importantly, he is
plugged into the on-line criticism of the Republicans Party and official
conservatism. He pithily says on stage what people say on Facebook and
Twitter about the party. He has been the Hindu Muhammed Ali mocking the
party at its own shows.

Last night was a perfect example of the staggering incompetence that has
come to define not just the party by the political class. No one,
including the moderator, was prepared for what the Cobra unleashed on
the other three people. At the last debate he gave War Karen, Nikki
Haley, the Sean Connery treatment. It was the story of the debate, but
this time no one was prepared, so the Cobra rhetorically gave her a good
paddling while she purred like a kitten,

The whole point of having War Karen on the stage was to make her the
spokes-zombie of the Kagan Cult and thereby re-legitimize their madness
as a feature of the Republican Party establishment. Instead, the Cobra
has used her as a prop in his general critique of neoconservatism. Most
Republican voters never heard the word “neocon” but now they know they
are bad people. Like their other project, the War Karen scheme blew up
in the neocon’s face.

Another character in this theater of the absurd is Fat Ann Coulter,
Chris Christie, who sounds like every man’s ex-wife. His reason to exist
in these shows was to be the fat loudmouth from New Jersey who could
out-crude Trump, while repeating everything Ann Coulter posts about
Trump on Twitter. He came into the show assuming he could fat guy bully
the Cobra, but instead he got the Ned Beatty treatment. The only thing
the Cobra did not do was make him squeal like a pig.

Where you really see the systemic incompetence is in the campaign of Ron
“Bootsy” DeSantis, who was supposed to be Trump’s mini-me. Everything
about his campaign has been terrible, because he made the decision to
hand his campaign over to party hacks and Washington insiders. As a
result, he has spent this year transitioning from the mouthy Italian
from Florida into Mike Dukakis. He is so boring dust forms on your
monitor whenever someone mentions him on-line.

Last night was a perfect example. DeSantis was programmed to attack
Haley, who the dullards think is “surging in the polls.” This gave the
green light to the Cobra to unleash his most furious attacks yet on the
field and the party itself. His challenge to them to name a single
providence in Ukraine, after they chanted the neocon lines about the
war, was a thing of beauty. War Karen and Fat Ann Coulter were poleaxed,
while Bootsy looked like he was about to poo himself.

The point here is this should never have been allowed to happen. A
modestly competent party would have never allowed the Cobra on the
stage, much less allowed him to eviscerate their candidates. Of course,
even the Stupid Party would have turned Trump 2016 into an asset. The
party of Reagan would have co-opted Trump and had him sign off on all of
their pet projects. The modern party is run by girls and homosexuals so
it is getting shredded by a call center supervisor.

To this point the Cobra has been an amusing warmup act to the big show
featuring Trump as the main attraction in 2024. Until these last two
debates it was inconceivable that the Cobra could win the nomination.
His thorough humiliation of the other actors on the stage suggests
anything is possible. Imagine the party eliminating Trump only to get
out played by the Cobra at the convention. In a world run by
increasingly stupid people, the safe bet is the dumbest idea you can
imagine.

From the dissident perspective, we have to hope that Trump remembers why
he had urinals installed at his villa in Florida and picks the Cobra to
be his running mate after the first few primaries. This would be the
ultimate mind rape of the Borg we call the mass media, and it would make
for a great show. Trump would unleash some boomer jibes and the Cobra
would amplify them with millennial online jargon. It would be like 4Chan
became a pollical party and ran for office.

It is a terrible way to run an empire, but given the collection of
sissies, entitled women and simpletons that is the alternative, having a
collection of shit-posters run things will at least provide some laughs
as we careen into the void. Otherwise, it means the collapse is managed
by the same people who thought it was a good idea to promote a
ball-shriveling shrew like War Karen as an alternative to Trump.
Everyone will be praying for sweet death as the empire collapses.

Sadly, that is not the way to bet. There is a reason our literature is
not filled with amusing tales of the end of prior empires. The end of
the established order is never a good time for the people living it.
Collapse is never fun, and the collapse of the American empire will be
no exception. It will be War Karen, Fat Ann Coulter, and the rest until
the men of the West have had enough, spit on their hands, raise the
black flag and begin splitting throats.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="4JbQsSsTmElHpKcvssrrow==cb7Jjos8VLtDd9LLdfiRVuLerWwoq8ZwIvZ3zp2GrXsVHwIzgmkkBflzvqCNpvbodo+"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="m1J+o3EAEpcWiST7cp8hXQ==cb78rzjKH39j5QoW4VCoLfAVl+Lk5aWSNhnvhsAe8MnPtM2zGlTzRED9UEXsRB4YcbD"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
