---
title: "Green Door Content: Annie Hall"
date: "2023-12-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31312"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31312"
---

**Note:** By the time this posts, I will be on the roof of the new place
with the chimney man getting things ready for the new woodstove. I had
the flue inspected and that is fine, but the cap needs attention and I
am having the flue cleaned just to be sure. The following is a post from
behind the green door to hold everyone over until I return, assuming I
do not fall off the roof. If there is no Friday post, it has been fun.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If I were tasked with writing a summary of the classic Woody Allen
movie, Annie Hall, I would be hard pressed to get past a paragraph. It
is film starring a neurotic Jewish man, played by Woody Allen, and a
mentally unstable woman, played by Diane Keeton, who wander around New
York for ninety minutes speaking to one another as if they swallowed a
1970’s pop-psychology textbook.

The movie reminds me of the old quip about the James Joyce novel
Ulysses. “A Jewish man who wanders around Dublin and nothing happens.”
That is not a criticism. In fact, it is the best thing I can think of to
say about the film. There is a chance that Allen was inspired by the
Joyce novel and was attempting to recreate it for a New York audience,
from an entirely Jewish perspective. Joyce is mentioned in this scene.

I did some digging around to see if maybe that was what Allen was doing
with this film, but I found nothing to suggest it. Despite its status as
a classic film and one of Allen’s best works, there is not much in the
way of critical analysis. That is because there is not much to examine
when it comes to things you expect in a story. It is just two neurotic
Manhattanites wandering around for ninety minutes.

The film is classed as a romantic comedy, but it is probably better to
call it a character study or perhaps an anthropological study. It is
primarily about two people, presented as representative of the cultural
elite of the time, as they struggle with their various insecurities and
disconnectedness. Comedian Alvy Singer, (Allen) and Annie Hall (Keaton)
are struggling with alienation in the modern age.

Alienation is the subtext of the film, but it is not entirely clear that
Allen had the self-awareness to know this. Alvy Singer is the typical
Jewish character struggling with his otherness in a world dominated by
non-Jews. Allen hams it up quite a bit to the point where Alvy Singer is
a satire of the Jewish guy who is sure that around every corner there
could be a gang of Nazis ready to haul him away to the camps.

Once you get past the hyperbole, you get to the essential reality of the
Jewish condition, at least as Jews see it, which is that they are always
a people who dwell alone, regardless of where they find themselves. Who
they are is defined by their outsider status so they must remain as
outsiders or risk losing their identity. It is the essential
contradiction at the heart of Jewish identity in the diaspora.

Alienation takes on a different form with Annie. She is presented as
from a standard issue white middle-class family. At one point, Alvy
jokes that she grew up in a Norman Rockwell painting. She is the modern
atomized female, a creature of both feminism and the modern economy, who
sees a therapist and spends most of her time dwelling on trivialities to
escape from the loneliness of her life.

The two of them sort of fall in love, but their relationship does not
work because of the self-absorption rooted in their alienation. Alvy
only thinks about sex, while Annie has no interest in sex. In both
cases, this leads to endless self-examination that is entirely
superficial and pointless. These are two people who are alienated from
themselves, so it is why they cannot have a normal human relationship.

Sadly, that analysis is far more interesting than the film version. Both
characters are boring and self-indulgent. There is no reason to care
about them because you have met these stock figures loads of times in
film and real life. Annie is a neurotic dingbat who every man over
thirty has met a thousand times. Allen is the classic Jewish guy who
thinks his endless complaining makes him seem interesting.

That is the main problem with the film. It wants to be a social
commentary, but it has nothing to say about the things featured in the
film. You get some pithy commentary from Alvie who breaks the fourth
wall throughout the film, but those are just gag lines that Allen used
in his stand-up. Otherwise, you have no reason to care about the people,
so you have no reason to think about their dilemma.

In this regard it is like other movies of this decade in that they were
made by people who held themselves in high regard, so they just assumed
anything they did or said was important by itself. They made films that
were supposed to lead the horse to water, but it was hard to care about
the horse, so the water never came into focus. Whatever Allen was trying
to say about his time and place in this film remained unsaid.

That said, the film is visually interesting. Even after fifty years it
feels like you are there in Manhattan with Alvy and Annie. You often
think you can smell the stench of the urine-soaked hobos, which were a
feature of the city at the time. This may be why the film shows up on
the top-100 list, rather than other Woody Allen films which were graded
higher at the time in terms of artistic merit.

In the end, Annie Hall feels like a professionally made film school
project in that it is self-indulgent and the person doing the
self-indulging is not that interesting. Woody Allen’s hang-ups and
insecurities are interesting to no one but Woody Allen. A film about
them, not matter how well done, is still just a film about a boring
Jewish man who spends ninety minutes walking around Manhattan with an
equally boring shiksa.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Gqxbhh/qo/VYcyyWcmnIMQ==cb7ngVjMahwxOCRoWCMco9CQae6HDMJQ6tgddgHvpAjR3nAN6vckG9mqX7CNs3OrvYO"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="j2grd4pthBKYZ7T1ig4dGw==cb7lhTyEI/O+x6jikIg5WplXfVTgjup/PHypqrICj+vpQEODg0ij7dVZUZ2c3/e9BhW"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
