---
title: "Whither Ukraine?"
date: "2023-10-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31054"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31054"
---

For close to two years, Project Ukraine has been the fashion statement
for all of the best people in the American empire. Celebrities from all
over the West have made the trip to Kiev to be seen with Zelensky and
Zelensky has toured the world to be seen with the most important people
and ask them for money. Now all of a sudden Zelensky is finding it hard
to get anyone to take his calls, much less visit. The war in the Levant
has made him and Project Ukraine last year’s fashion.

This may be difficult for Zelensky personally, but it is probably for
the best in terms of present politics, as things are not going well for
Ukraine. The long-promised offensive that kicked off in the summer has
ground to an ignominious halt. Ukraine lost most of the equipment sent
from the West and tens of thousands of men in order to capture a few
square kilometers of land. Russia actually captured more territory
overall than the Ukrainians during the Ukrainian offensive.

Now the war is about to enter a new phase. With Ukraine having lost much
of its offensive potential in the counter-offensive, it will have little
choice but to settle back into defensive lines and hope for the best. It
is hard to know how many men Ukraine has in its army, but even if the
high estimates for losses are correct, they probably have a force of
about 150,000. They also have to conserve ammunition and equipment as
shipments from the West are slowing.

In the south, the line of contact changed very little. This is where the
Ukrainians ran into the massive Russian defenses during the offensive.
There is some speculation that the Russians could stage a winter
breakout from this area, like they did against the Germans in the battle
of Kursk. This is where the Red Army withstood a massive German
offensive and then launched a counter-offensive, defeating the Germans
in one of the biggest tank battles in history.

There is no evidence to suggest the Russians have such a plan. Instead,
they appear to be content to reduce their losses to the absolute minimum
by grinding down the Ukrainians with superior artillery and air power.
The one exception is a heavily fortified town in Donetsk called
Avdiivka. The Russians are executing an encircling operation against
some of the best Ukrainian units. This is one of those key strongholds
along the line of contact that Ukraine will defend to the last man.

Where things have changed the most over the last several months is in
the north where the Russians have made big gains. The Ukrainians
stripped these lines for the offensive in the south, which allowed the
Russians to break through to a city called Kupiansk, a key logistic hub
for the Ukrainians. If the Russians are able to secure this city over
the winter, it sets them up to move south towards Izyum and Kramatorsk,
where the command and control of the Ukraine army is located.

In a war of attrition, however, territory is secondary. The game is to
kill as many opposing men as possible while losing as few men as
possible. The same logic holds for equipment, logistics and industrial
capacity. This is the game the Russians have been playing for over a
year now. As a result, their
<a href="https://en.zona.media/article/2022/05/20/casualties_eng"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">casualties</a> have fallen sharply since
the early days of the war. Ukraine, in contrast, has been trying to take
territory, which has resulted in huge losses in men and material.

This is going to be the story for 2024. The Russians have been slowly
building their forces over the last year. They probably have three
quarters of a million men in and around the front. Ukraine is probably
down to 150,000. The Russians are also well supplied with ammunition and
an increasing variety of weapons with which they can strike Ukraine from
a distance. The Russian air force is now operating with little
resistance over the entire battle space.

This means there is one very large, well-supplied army on one side,
content to pound away at a smaller army from a distance. That smaller
army is also finding it difficult to maintain its supply lines and keep
its suppliers happy. This rather frank
<a href="https://time.com/6329188/ukraine-volodymyr-zelensky-interview/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> from Time hints that the army
is no longer following orders from the government. Add in the sudden
disinterest from Washington and things look bleak for Ukraine. They are
facing a slow death at the hands of a superior army.

This is where things get interesting. If victory is off the table and
stalemate unlikely, that leaves one option for the West. The problem is
Washington has boxed itself in with its rhetoric and actions. This may
not be an accident. If in the end Ukraine collapses and Russia installs
a new government, Washington will declare it all illegal and refuse to
recognize the new government. They will treat Ukraine like North Korea
and shift to a law-grade war to keep the place in chaos.

Ukraine has no good options. Zelensky may have gone mad under the
pressure of the last two years. Regardless, it is unlikely the Russians
will agree to deal with him in a peace settlement. Of course, if he
reaches out to Moscow, his own people will kill him, probably at the
request of the CIA. On the other hand, if they fight to the last
Ukrainian, the army will eventually revolt and kill the political
leadership. The only hope is some new event forces the Russians to end
the war on their own.

As for Russia, the war is just one part of a larger geopolitical
strategy that looks far past the Ukraine situation. The cost of the war
in terms of men and material is manageable so they can continue it as
long as needed. They see the impact it is having on the European
political class and their relationship with Washington. It is also
slowly draining the EU economically. For now, the best option for Russia
is to keep doing what they are doing and prepare for the inevitable
breaks in the opposition.

What this means for Ukraine is it becomes something of a tar baby. With
a presidential election coming up in 2024, Washington is trying to flick
the Ukraine problem off, hoping it sticks to the Europeans. The
Europeans are noticing this and are starting to look for a way to avoid
having Ukraine stick to them. Russia is not about to help and allow the
fate of Ukraine to become their problem, at least not yet. The result is
Ukraine becomes an economic, demographic, and social catastrophe.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="cx11e3rKxC8A54r4fZUNoQ==cb7ldV5xgXVkp27pg34uQu+P9K3VWaNYVnjp+RnjVBbqzyOTRB7bX5cvHoAkC6O56wW"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="6siqkx8zatrAI7NFkzMb2Q==cb7B5VvsW1aUCbdQ1Bm4z3/Tg2x6uclxqgLOeUo1gxcdGLfdhj9vMuu9rhJCrDuSweM"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
