---
title: "Bad Science"
date: "2023-07-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-07-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30418"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30418"
---

Americans have always been skeptical of science, mostly because
Americans are naturally skeptical about extravagant claims. There has
always been a paradox at the center of the American identity. Americans
assume there is a solution to all of the practical problems of the
world. On the other hand, Americans suspect that the people offering
those solutions are not on the level. As a result, American can marvel
at scientific progress but hold science in low regard.

This turns up in popular culture. Watch old films and you often see
scientists presented as overconfident in their abilities, unethical in
their pursuit of knowledge or foolish in how they ignore the risks of
the work. In popular culture, the scientist is Dr. Frankenstein, a mad
scientist, or a naïve fool. These movie tropes are common because they
appeal to the cultural framing of science. While scientists may be our
smartest people, they are not the most trusted people.

Probably the biggest driver of this is medicine. Despite trillions
poured into the medical establishment, we do not know that much about
the human body. The three main drivers of health and longevity in the
West are antibiotics, nutrition and sanitation, not great scientific
breakthroughs. We have gotten better at treating things like cancer and
heart disease, but we are a long way away from curing them. Medicine is
still not sure why cancer exists, much less how to prevent it.

This persistent ignorance, however, has not stopped the medical
profession from lecturing the public on health. Public health officials
have spent the last fifty years anathematizing tobacco use. The claim
was it caused cancer. Therefore, eliminating smoking should lower cancer
rates. Smoking rates have collapsed in America, but cancer rates have
remained the same. Lung cancer rates have not changed much at all, which
is where we should have seen the benefit.

Something like smoking is where you see the problem most clearly.
Science has figured out why smoking causes emphysema. The ash builds up
in the lungs. People figured this out long before we considered medicine
a science. We still have no idea what it is in tobacco that causes
cancer. There is no honest answer as to what is in cigarettes that gets
people hooked on them. People who smoke pipes or vape do not display the
same dependency that we see with cigarettes.

Given the trillions spent on medicine and medical research, one would
think by now that we would have unriddled the whole tobacco puzzle. Even
if our libertarian impulse would prevent the banning of tobacco
products, we should be able to ban the highly addictive additives put
into some of these things. The best we have is nicotine supplements
designed to keep the addict hooked on nicotine. You cannot blame people
for thinking this is not entirely on the level.

Of course, there has been no bigger blow to the reputation of science
than the army of grifters and conmen shouting “trust the science” during
Covid. People with impressive credentials in medicine told the public
that you must wrap your underwear around your head and stop drinking
after a certain hour to prevent Covid. They also invented a vaccine that
does not inoculate you against the infection and has some chance of
killing you with myocarditis and blood clots.

It is not so much that these cranks and lunatics were all wrong about
Covid, but that there have been no consequences. The seriousness of a
profession is determined by its willingness to maintain its own
standards. No one trusts lawyers because crooked lawyers rarely face
punishment. The one profession with less policing of the ranks than the
law is medicine. The same people making bizarre claims about Covid will
be out doing the same act during the next manufactured crisis.

Another blight on science and related to medicine is the area of
nutrition. There are two sides to the nutrition debate. The official
side promotes the Standard American Diet, which is designed to boost
agribusiness. The other side is the army of grifters and snake oil
salesmen pushing supplements and fad diets. Nowhere in American life is
the old “heads they win, tails you lose” dynamic more obvious and
pernicious than in the realm of human diet and lifestyle.

Start with the official side of things. Everyone reading this has
probably got a lecture from their doctor about cutting out fat and salt
from the diet. The food pyramid tells us to eat more grain and minimize
red meat. Generations of Americans were told to replace butter with
margarine. None of this is based on science. In the case of margarine,
we know this crackpot idea was pushed by agribusiness looking for a way
to make money off what at the time was a waste product.

The response to this oogily-boogily is just as insane. Fad diets used to
promise weight loss with minimal sacrifice. Now they come up with
nonsense claims about the science of health and fitness. The latest is
the carnivore diet, which claims we need to eat like our ancient
ancestors. That means just meat and some dairy. Our ancient ancestors
did not live on meat and dairy. They ate whatever they could find. More
important, for ten thousand years we have survived on bread, not meat.

When someone with “MD” after their name is often seen pushing crackpot
ideas like the carnivore diet or some witch’s brew promising to make you
smarter, it is no wonder that we call doctors “quacks”. When your doctor
says you have high cholesterol and need to take pills, you want to trust
her, but then you find out that there is not a lot of evidence that the
pills make a real difference. You start to wonder if she is just another
type of sales rep from the pharmaceutical industrial complex.

When you combine the conflation of medicine with science and the shoddy
reputation of medicine, it is no wonder that Americans have a negative
view of science. How can anyone “trust the science” when the people
screaming “trust the science” on social media are both wrong and crazy?
Replace the phrase “trust the science” during Covid with “trust the
crazy homeless guy who screams at people in the middle of the street”,
and you would have the same effect.

That raises the other big problem for science, the expert. America is
plagued with people claiming to be experts. Pick any noun and search for
it along with the word “expert” and you will find someone claiming to be
an expert in the noun. Of course, all nouns are equal in the expertise
game, but some nouns are more equal than others, so you will have better
luck finding a “racism expert” than someone who can tell you a good way
to keep the squirrels out of the attic.

The modern age is now flooded with experts whose expertise ranges from
the annoying to the ridiculously impossible. Diversity experts, for
example, are not experts in the sense they have a mastery of the
subject. They just repeat the magic words from the catechism in a
hectoring tone. The extremism expert is claiming to be knowledgeable
about a subject that does not exist. Extremism is undefinable. How can
you be an expert on something that is no more than a moral signal?

It is no wonder that Americans are skeptical of science. The main ways
they interface with science are horribly corrupt and stupid. Granted,
medicine is not science and the people claiming to be experts in social
causes are crackpots, but they are presented to Americans as the product
of science. Science has now become the authority for all things annoying
and offensive. If science gives us the carnivore diet and the racism
expert, maybe science is more trouble than it is worth.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="CHfN5AOVviSl71zdtiirlQ==cb702lCiHVOHoIJPbOE8QL5CWahgKLPV1RisAzAS5ffoif8iObQl9vckXVck3ZRy/Lm"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="f989dE9X9P7TogKqbrcRhw==cb7ZZ9eKJ6OVhQf3Vc3f22TP+OTeHcYZBH9bSyo1s61hekLfCFs0xUoaM+lzKpINex+"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
