---
title: "The Virtue Of Survivalism"
date: "2023-10-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-10-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30931"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30931"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door I have a post about D*ouble Indemnity*,
a Bill Wilder classic from the film noir genre, a post about a forgotten
post-war classic, *The Best Years of Our Lives* and the Sunday podcast.
You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In his book *The Virtue of Nationalism*, Yoram Hazony argues that the
ideal world order is one based on the nation state. All the peoples of
the world would have a place to call their home and be governed by their
own kind. He defines the nation as a closely related people with a
common language and history. Since shared history requires close
proximity, he assumes this history happened in a place. He avoids the
phrase “blood and soil” but that is his intent.

Of course, the ideal world can only exist in the abstract. He points out
that there are thousands of identifiable groups of people without a
county of their own. He points to India as having over one thousand
languages. Since language is tangled up in blood and history, it is a
good proxy for identity. All over the world there are pockets of people
living as minority groups. It is unreasonable to think that all of these
people should be granted a nation of their own.

He also points out that his definition of a people is arbitrary. Two
groups of people could share a language and history, but also find a way
to see themselves as distinct from one another. There has to be some
limit to this as the logical end point is to reduce all human societies
to tiny tribes. Without some lower bound on what constitutes a people,
nationalism would “pulverize” exiting states. For a people to be a
nation they must exceed some threshold of sustainability.

If on the one hand the ideal is for every people to have their own
nation, but on the other hand it is impossible to create sustainable
nations for every group of people, how can national claims be properly
judged? Hazony’s answer is self-referencing in that he sets the
threshold at sustainability. In Chapter XVII of his book, he argues that
a people are entitled to a nation if they can sustain it and prudence
suggests it is practical or moral to support their claim to national
independence.

His first example is the United States. The thirteen colonies had a
legitimate claim to independence, despite sharing language and history
with England, because it was impractical for England to resist their
demands. The great ocean between England and the New World was too
large. On the other hand, the Confederacy did not have a rightful claim
to independence, because the Union could and did force those states back
into the Union. The South could not sustain its independence.

Another example he gives in Israel, which gained independence in 1948,
thanks to changing moral perspectives in Britain and America. Hazony
claims that the English-speaking world opposed the creation of a Jewish
state on the grounds that it would upset the Muslim world. The events of
World War II involving the Jews, however, changed this calculation. “The
holocaust demonstrated with maximum moral clarity the moral case for
Jewish national self-determination.”

Putting aside the veracity of his claims here, the Hazony model for
determining the edge cases for national independence comes down to
either winning the support of the international community through moral
persuasion or gaining your independence and maintaining it against all
challenges. The two can be combined to enlist the support of powerful
neighbors to take your side, as the American colonists did when they got
the support of France in the American war for independence.

When you boil it all down, the Hazony formula for determining who has
and who does not have a moral claim to self-determination is quite
simple. Your claim is valid if you can make it stick. If circumstances
or the actions of larger nations around you prevent you from gaining
independence, then your claim was invalid. In his view, the virtue of
nationalism lies in its effectiveness. Nationalism is a virtue if it
wins your people their independence, but it is not a virtue in and of
itself.

If this sounds a little bit like trial by combat, that is because it
relies on the same view of man and society as ancient people. From
Hazony’s point of view, you are morally indistinguishable from your
people. You are a virtuous person if your life is lived in service to
your people. Your people deserve respect and support if they are able to
gain and keep their independence, by any means necessary. Nationalism
is, in effect, trial by combat but between peoples.

This is a way of viewing virtue that is alien to the modern Western
mind, as we think of virtue as an end, not a means to an end. You are a
virtuous person, for example, if you practice certain habits like
charity and conscientiousness, not if you make a lot of money or attain
great power. For Hazony, virtue is about your purpose in helping your
people attain their freedom as a people. This means anything that you do
in pursuit of that collective goal is by definition virtuous.

This may not seem all that interesting, but in the context of the war
between Israel and the Arab population in Gaza, it sheds light on what
we are seeing from the Zionist supporters of Israel. The reason they do
not see the contradiction between their claims about the Palestinians
and their behavior toward the Palestinians, is the difference in how
they see virtue. It is not simply tribalism that lets them maintain
these contradictory views, but an alien moral framework.

From the point of view of the Zionists, Israel has a right to exist
because it has gained independence and convinced enough big countries to
support them in their fight to maintain their independence. The
Palestinians, in contrast, have not been able to secure their
independence and even if they were granted it in Gaza and the West Bank,
they lack the means to sustain it. Therefore, their moral case for
independence is invalid and their war against Israel is immoral.

Despite it being alien to modern people, this view of the world has its
appeal, which you can see in the bloodlust voiced by Americans in
support of Israel. The calls for vengeance and retribution titillate
some ancient part of our brains that was of great value to our ancestors
but is now buried under the conditioning in favor of individualism and
moral objectivism. The suburban peasant may not be allowed to root for
his own side, but he can root for Israel, so he does that instead.

In the end, Hazony may be correct in that the only thing that matters is
the survival of your people, so all moral abstractions must be
sublimated to it. The West has simply taken a holiday from reality by
asserting that there is an objective moral standard for how people
should act and how nations should act. In reality, the only thing that
matters is winning the battle for survival and the winner can then
declare how he won as the only acceptable way for how nations out to
live.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="u/sveu4Tn5zRqfRlBI+a0Q==cb7rekSKtJJTGBJI8yb3eT8QV0IHCGNvXVZQNSqUCSZbmdecXnpeDCFVvBTecvWr8A0"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="7qFwZP1hsHmFaddYX4AbgA==cb7k4+vWrW8gNJMGpwg6ZpAlaIhLu1nLT477NgbEAfHVsU1igxZODnx1k+qMQsrGEP6"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
