---
title: "The Gods Have Gone Crazy"
date: "2023-04-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-04-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=29816"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=29816"
---

The primary difference between a god and a man is that the gods have
powers that no man can possess. It is not that the gods are bigger,
faster, and stronger than men, even though that is often the case. It is
that the gods can violate the rules of nature or even harness nature
itself. Gods can defy gravity, change the course of rivers, or make it
go dark in the middle of the day. The gods are gods because they get to
make exceptions to the rules that bound the life of man.

Of course, this is not the only role of the gods. If the gods violated
the rules of the universe all the time or helped man violate those
rules, then the rules would be meaningless and all that would matter is
favoring the gods. A big part of what makes the gods is their
enforcement of the rules. What man can expect is the rules to apply at
all times and all places. It is the exceptions that remind him that his
world is the creation of the gods, and he has to respect them.

Christianity changed this relationship a tiny bit. The old gods were
relegated to folklore and the new God was the only god. God was not
playing an active role in the affairs of mankind, but more of an
observer. Even so, God was the great enforcer of the rules of nature, by
not violating those rules, outside of miraculous circumstances that lie
beyond the ability of man to comprehend. God made the world. It operates
by fixed rules and only God can make exceptions.

This is an important concept to understanding the world. Human society
is based on the idea that the rules apply to everyone, except the
sovereign, who is allowed to exempt himself from the rules and make
exceptions to the rules. The king, for example, can pardon a condemned
man, even though the man broke the rules. The king is the only member of
society to judge himself because he is the only member of society
responsible for maintaining the rules of society.

Like the gods, this special position falls apart quickly if the king is
making exceptions to the rules to the point where the rules are
meaningless. The king goes from being the sovereign to being a tyrant.
What defines him is not the rules and his role in the enforcement of the
rules, but rather his lack of rules. This is the fundamental definition
of tyranny. There are no rules, just the caprice of the ruler. Everyone
lives in terror of being on the wrong side of the tyrant.

If one wanted to produce a universal definition for hell, it would start
with the complete lack of rules. After all, if the Devil has rules, then
you can theoretically appeal to those rules for relief. There is some
hope that you can end the torment by complying with the rules or finding
a loophole. On the other hand, if there are no rules then there is no
hope for appeal as there is no rule to which you can appeal. There is
nothing but the desire of the Devil to inflict torment upon you.

The point of all this is that order depends upon rules, but it also
requires an enforcer of those rules and that is always someone with the
power to make exceptions. If that person or entity abuses that power, we
slowly move out of the world of order and into the hellish domain of
rule by tyrant. The tyrant flips the concept of the rule of law on its
head so that the rules become dangerous. Today’s lawful action can be
deemed unlawful tomorrow by the tyrant.

We see this in miniature on the social media platforms. YouTube creators
must spend time self-policing their old content because even though they
complied with the rules at the time, the rules change constantly. That
old video about Rumble was within the rules two years ago, but all of a
sudden, it is now a violation of the rules, so you can lose your channel
as a result of it. This applies across all social media platforms. The
“terms of service” is a license to unleash hell on the platform users.

The same people turning the rules of the internet into a jumble of
exceptions administered by petty tyrants are doing the same to the law.
It used to be that you could have an opinion about the powerful people.
You could get a bunch of your friends to hold a rally in order to
express that opinion. In theory you can still do these things, but it is
impossible to know if it is legal. Years after the fact the state of
Virginia is <a href="https://archive.is/1VXH7" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">prosecuting</a> Charlottesville protestors for carrying
tiki torches.

Of course, the people turning the law into a dangerous labyrinth are
also redefining the phrase “new world order” to mean unpredictable
chaos. America is supposed to be the keeper of the rules-based world and
the defender of order. Instead, the Washington regime spreads chaos
around the world, mostly by violating the rules they demand others
follow and punishing those who do follow the rules. Washington has
become the
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6A9DjIq6eSM" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">global tyrant</a>, the great violator of order.

What one finds behind this spread of lawlessness and chaos are people
appropriating for themselves the right to make exceptions. Whether it is
trivial things like the rules of social media, the mundane things in our
courtrooms and boardrooms, or the big things on the global stage, it is
always the same people turning the rules into an unnavigable jungle of
exceptions. They have declared themselves gods and have driven the rest
of us mad with their endless exceptions.

They may be crazy, but they are not gods, despite their claims. They are
just the ruling class of the American empire. Ironically, a founding
document of the American experiment provides the remedy. “But when a
long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same
Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is
their right, it is their duty, to throw off such Government, and to
provide new Guards for their future security.”

This is what we see happening in the world. The emerging global powers,
along with smaller powers like OPEC, are abandoning the old gods of the
unipolar world for the new gods of the multipolar world. The new gods
promise to respect the rules and avoid exceptions without consent. The
same must happen inside the West and eventually in the heart of the
American empire. There will be peace only when there are new rules that
are enforced by new men who know they are not gods.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="4ru4VPdPhW6lTNp8/cnYrg==cb7fA/rhEqa78NMzBz8VxbH30WLEYQeaJlmG0F9NsUPXEzNyr8xtQYrEzW2KqEewha3"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="/e6VJUSQpY9SpX4+O2XFqA==cb7AeB/4d7lDQkyLbIWFAuFbaM/LIunWulXaX+YV5jFMZlcYnBU959wlQFUZu8MrITx"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
