---
title: "Justified Paranoia"
date: "2023-12-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-12-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31265"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31265"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door I have a post about the wackiness of the
real estate rackets, a post about the classic western *High Noon*, which
is probably both overrated and underrated as a film. Then there is the
Sunday podcast. You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If someone says something that is wrong or crazy about a topic in which
you have no interest, you are most likely going to ignore them.
Similarly, if the person saying these wacky things is someone you do not
think has any credibility, you will not bother rebutting what they have
to say. It is when someone says something incorrect or inaccurate about
a topic you think is important that you respond. If you think that
person has influence, you want to make sure to rebut them.

Politics in the age of the internet violates this rule as people engage
with anonymous weirdos online over abstract topics all the time. There
is an old meme where a guy is up late at night and his wife asks him why
he is not in bed. He says, “There is a guy on the internet saying things
I don’t like.” Most people are not like this, but the weirdness of this
new thing depends on that reality at the start. You are not supposed to
care about the words of anonymous weirdos.

That is the place to start with yet another example of the regime losing
its mind over people holding the wrong opinion about the 2020 election.
<a
href="https://revolver.news/2023/12/special-counsel-jack-smith-is-accusing-president-trump-of-stochastic-terrorism-in-a-legal-brief/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here</a> is a breakdown of the charges
the Biden administration is bringing against Trump over the peaceful
protests on January 6. The first thing to note is the prosecutor is
using the crackpot idea of stochastic violence, which was cooked up by
mentally unstable people on Twitter who thought mean tweets would cause
them physical harm.

Note also that the core of the case against Trump here and in all of the
January 6th persecutions is that the offenders are election denier. In
many of these cases, the judge, as a part of the punishment, makes the
accused say in open court that he now believes Biden won fair and
square. You can be sure that the main goal of these charges against
Trump is to get him to do the same. The regime and its volunteer army of
toadies is obsessed with this idea.

The question is why? Since Trump came down the escalator these people
have told us that Trump is a clown and his supporters are lunatics. If
they genuinely believe it, then they should not care what they say.
Granted, politics causes people to lose their minds, but the allegedly
serious people in positions of power should not be going Daffy Duck over
politics like they are a blue-haired harridans on Twitter. Yet it is
important people in the regime that are berserk about this issue.

The other angle here is that if you think Biden won fair and square,
then you have no reason to care about the fraud claims. Lots of far-left
people swore Karl Rover rigged Ohio in 2004. They wrote
<a href="https://www.motherjones.com/media/2005/11/recounting-ohio/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">books</a> about it. No one took them
seriously because their case was obvious nonsense, and they are nutters.
Normal people spent five years laughing at the Russian collusion hoax
for the same reason. In other words, normal people do not care about
nutty claims from nutty people.

The most obvious and likely reason for this obsession by the regime and
its toadies is that they think the election was rigged too. We have the
hoary chestnut, “the laddie doth protest too much” for a reason. We
suspect that when someone goes to great lengths to disprove an
accusation that they are motivated by a fear that people will see that
there is some truth in the accusation. The response should always be
proportional to the accusation and the person making the accusation.

That means the root of all of this is the regime knows they went too far
in the 2020 election they have now put the credibility of the system in
question. They now feel the need to hunt down anyone who casts doubt on
the results. This would also explain why you can still get banned from
YouTube for mentioning this. Until Musk came along, Twitter was
aggressively hunting down election skeptics. Three years on and the
regime is still hunting people down for election skepticism.

This does not quite explain it all. By now they could have dropped it as
we are deep into the next election. The trouble is, they are plotting to
repeat the 2020 shenanigans, but this time they want to put Trump in
jail in advance. If people were skeptical of the midnight vote counting
the last time, they are going to see through any scheme to remove Trump
from the ballot in 2024. Perhaps they think ending 2020 skepticism will
somehow inoculate them this time.

A better answer or perhaps a companion answer is one that also explains
the inappropriate response to January 6. Not only did the regime wildly
overreact in the aftermath, but they have also been conducting what now
looks like an elaborate coverup of wrongdoing before, during and after
the event. These <a
href="https://www.newsweek.com/mike-johnson-jan-6-tapes-capitol-riot-footage-public-1849569"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">missing tapes</a> have that Watergate
feel to them. We could be in one of those times when the aluminum foil
hat guys are the reasonable people in the room.

What explains January 6 and the kooky election denial stuff is the
genuine fear that the system is far more fragile than the public knows.
The people inside the black box that is Washington fear that they are
sitting atop a house of cards. If the public really knew what they know,
January 6 would be a day at the beach. The reason they are hunting down
skeptics is they think any questioning of any aspect of the official
narrative could cause the whole thing to unravel.

Another hoary chestnut that applies here is “just because you are
paranoid it does not follow that no one is out to get you.” The people,
including the election skeptics, may think the system is sound. It is
the people running it. The people running it, however, may see it the
exact opposite way. They may think they are fine, but the system itself
is about to tip over and if it does, there will be hell to pay. That
could be why they saw January 6 as something like Bloody Sunday.

Add to this that the people running the regime view themselves as
revolutionaries in the line of the Jacobins and Bolsheviks. They were
nursed on revolutionary talk and committed their lives to the slogans of
the Left. They may run everything, but they still see themselves as
plucky underdogs fighting the man. They know every revolution is a near
run thing, so they are always in fear that their project will go
sideways, and they will end up on the gallows or in the gulag.

In the end, what all this tells us is that the system and the people
running it are probably not as stable as most want to believe. The
system itself is no longer functioning as the users expect and the
people running it are increasingly paranoid. The American political
system is software that is full of bugs, run by a support staff that is
shooting users who register complaints about the software. At some point
you run out of users, or the users demand a new system.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Gfn4YFdUx/4vWES4B7c5XA==cb7nABiEQTEkcK+70FA0ePO8ogK5uYZLq6izUDSEgXHV6+HhLYxBQk2PS3E9w6czGVC"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="CvkeDli/aYdtbhJQTx2S7g==cb7B/383LDxryFsq9kkDmuT1q8/6wdj4l9hWFlK1I1sU+ojk1jJWAJqb4uYFPkaXgOa"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
