---
title: "Ooga Booga"
date: "2023-08-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-08-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30632"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30632"
---

**Note:** This is a post from behind the green door. I am taking the
animals to the vet first thing in the morning, so I had not time to
write. A few month ago Paul Ramsey mentioned this movie, so I gave it a
watch and wrote a review. The description of the film is not a joke.
This is a real film available on Amazon.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The reason to watch a B-movie is they are often unintentionally funny
because they are so poorly made, or they have ridiculous premise. The
film *Killer Clowns from Outer Space* has a cult following because of
its absurdity. The people working in this segment of the entertainment
industry have no illusions about what they are doing, so they hire the
most cynical writers and the most desperate actors.

There are exceptions and one of them is *Ooga Booga*, a film written and
directed by a long time B-movie maker named Charles Band. He has been in
the B-movie business for half a century. He is the creator of the
*Puppet Master* series, which has a cult following for some reason. So
far, fifteen films have been created in the series, all heading straight
to home video.

Mr. Band is known for horror and sci-fi films featuring puppets and
*Ooga Booga* falls into that category, assuming such a category
officially exists. What makes this film stand out is that it is
90-minutes of vulgar hatred of white people. The film is a crude
expression of what Hollywood people think about white society, but it is
so poorly executed that it comes off as unintentional self-parody.

The film starts on the set of a local children’s show. There is a
cartoonish farm girl doing kids entertainment stuff. She then signals
for another actor to come on stage, but he does not arrive. The scene
shifts to the backroom where a man wearing a pig nose is pleasuring
himself while drinking white liquor. The producer comes in and drags him
out onto the stage where he then says crude things.

The producer then fires pig man and we cut to a scene in a swanky
apartment where an idealized black guy, IBG for short, comes home to his
strong black female, SBF, to announce that he passed the medical exam.
They are about to get funky when the phone rings and it is Pig Man
asking IBG for help. Of course, IBG breaks of the funky time and goes to
help Pig Man.

Pig Man explains to IBG that he has this scheme to get rich selling
dolls that depict the oppressed in unflattering ways. The Asian doll has
big, bucked teeth and the gay doll is outrageously gay looking. The
black doll is an African savage, of course, with a bone in his nose. He
is Ooga Booga, and the Pig Man then says some things based on black
stereotypes. IBG takes offense but agrees to accept the doll as a gift.

After rendering no help at all. IBG then leaves and stops at a
convenience store, which is then robbed by three white meth heads. IBG
is hiding in the back as the meth heads execute the clerk and then leave
with some snacks. IBG calls the police and tries to render help by
dragging the dying clerk around the floor, because he learned that in
medical school.

Two cops arrive. One is Racist Cop and one is Antiracist Cop. We know
this because Racist Cop lets out with a string of cliches about black
people and shoots IBG. He then takes the gun from Antiracist Cop and
shoots IBG again to make sure he is dead, while explaining to Antiracist
Cop that he cannot say what really happened because his gun was used to
kill IBG.

The cops leave and the slushy machine then starts to make noise. Soon,
slushy mix is spilling out in volumes far greater than the machine could
hold while lightning bolts come out of the top. The slushy mix crosses
the floor and touches IBG and the Ooga Booga doll that he had brought
with him. Then something magical happens and the doll disappears without
explanation.

Next, we are in the office a judge who is calling the two cops “honky”
for some reason while telling them they are lucky he rigged their case.
Then we are in the apartment of IBG, and we see SBF trying to be sad
while looking at a picture of IBG, but she is such a terrible actress it
looks like she is about burst out laughing. It is a touching scene if
you have ever dreamt of murdering your spouse.

This is where Ooga Booga shows up. Keep in mind that he is a
twelve-inch-tall doll, who somehow made it several blocks from the store
and up several flights of stairs. He then chases SBF around the
apartment until she hides in the bathroom. He then carves his name on
the table using his toy spear. At this point she suspends all disbelief
and accepts that this twelve-inch cannibal doll is IBG.

Then we are in the trailer of the three meth heads. The point of this
scene is to tell us that white people are all meth smoking crackers.
Then we are back in the apartment of IBG who is smoking reefer.
Apparently SBF left for some reason. The landlord bursts in shouting
generally accurate but prohibited things about black people. Ooga Booga
gets angry and kills the landlord with his tiny spear.

On the street, SBF is accosted by the three white meth heads. They
debate whether to gang rape her or sell her into slavery. They choose
rape. She then comes home to take a shower, while Ooga Booga masturbates
watching her. I did not make that up. It is an actual scene in this
movie. One has to assume it was the writers who were smoking weed when
they wrote part of the film.

At this point, Ooga Booga and SBF agree to go on a revenge-murder spree.
The judge sends Racist Cop to investigate what is happening with the
white meth heads, who we learn are in charge of the judge’s drug and
prostitution rackets. This brings everyone to a trailer park filled with
the sorts of white people the makers of this film imagine are the
standard issue white person.

Ooga Booga then kills an old woman. Then SBF helps Ooga Booga kill the
meth heads with his tiny spear. Somewhere along the way SBF ambushes
Antiracist Cop thinking he is a racist cop, but he shows her a pic of
his wife, who is also a strong black female and they have a couple of
caramel-colored kids. SBF thanks him for being a good ally and does not
kill him. This is real and it happens.

Eventually SBF and Ooga Booga kill Racist Cop. Ooga Booga then shows up
in the judge’s office and kills him. In the final scene, a case full of
cash shows up at the apartment door of SBF. Inside is a note from Pig
Guy who got rich selling his dolls in China, so he sent what he
considers to be a fair share to IBG. The lesson is that racism is fine
if you can “get yo chips” or something like that. The end.

If you can look past the terribleness of the film and the ridiculous
premise, it is a good look inside the head of the typical Hollywood
person. It is a crudely drawn version of the stylish TV series *Mad
Men*. In this telling, blacks are innocent victims of evil, selfish
white people. In the scene where SBF is supposed to be mourning, she
says something about how they had a great life until whitey arrived.

Even though this is a terrible film, it is a good reminder that the
people behind these antiwhite pogroms are not amenable to reason. Their
complaint is not about anything that can be addressed, but about the
existence of white people. The war on whiteness is not just a war on
specific things or even on white people. It is a war on the very
humanity of white people. To them, we are just talking pigs.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions:** We have a new addition to the list. The
<a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="+e2+LbgppSAc5wEukwyH7w==cb70jMtIcEBpTI4XWDZJ5oqpfNrnd0Ll/VHKXVQxx0XoEzUASPJsIaSSUc6L+uJtzNY"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="MgZJ3TQvO7bIsiUJuZQuoA==cb7MFzyjg297I0j3AhVoxaGqsoREWP27UyB2WZJo0NfIRqmoXimgv3ZBT6z+rDe0xKW"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
