---
title: "Our Democracy"
date: "2023-09-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=30706"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=30706"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about the creative problems in
the making science fiction television, a post about the the Hitchcock
film *Rear Window*, and the Sunday podcast which is a rant about fate
women. You can sign up for a green door account at
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The phrase “our democracy” has become a popular chant among the
political class, always used as an excuse for anti-democratic action.
You can be sure they will be saying it like they have a weird form of
Tourette’s when the time comes to bar Donald Trump from the Republican
nomination. “For the good of our democracy, we are going to remove the
most popular guy from the Republican ballot.” In his place they will
appoint someone with little or no support.

Of course, this will be met with howls from the usual corners. They will
jump up and down demanding everyone notice the hypocrisy. What
“hypocrisy” means in the sector we call the Right is “they are doing
that which we would never have the courage to do even if allowed.” When
the group we call the Left uses this word they mean, “We have found some
minor contradiction in the criticism of us, so we are now free to ignore
all of that and continue on with our work.”

This difference in language is important to understanding why the
political class has become so fond of the phrase “our democracy.” For
normal people, democracy is a process by which the policy preferences of
the majority win out. In the crudest form it is understood to mean
majority rule. For most people, however, it means a process by which the
voters select representatives who then haggle and bargain over public
policy in legislatures while following an established set of rules.

Democracy can have things that are not majority rule. The most obvious
is the Electoral College system for electing a president. Normal people
understand that this is not majority rule, but a way to protect the
interests of small states against the interests of large states within
the democratic process. The Senate is another example of something that
is not democratic in the narrow sense, but part of the democratic
framework of the system to maintain balance.

There used to be a time when students were taught that the American
system was not a democracy but a representative republic. Democracy is
mob rule and mobs can be very fickle, especially under stress. The
system of checks and balances in the system is to slow the mob so that
the will of the people can mature. The people may not get what they want
initially, but after a series of elections the will of the people wills
out and we get public policy that reflects the general consensus.

Obviously, that is nothing like reality. One part of becoming a
dissident is accepting that this stuff you learned in school is at best
naïve and at worst a lie. The two-party system that we have is designed
to prevent ideas outside the consensus of the two parties from entering
the political debate. It also works to prevent the ruling class from
having to address the concerns of the people. The “democratic process”
is a fig leaf used by the ruling elite to <a
href="https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/perspectives-on-politics/article/testing-theories-of-american-politics-elites-interest-groups-and-average-citizens/62327F513959D0A304D4893B382B992B"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">subdue</a> any resistance to their rule.

Now, the right side of the political class does not think about this as
those people are generally selected for their stupidity. Their job is to
wave their <a
href="https://fivethirtyeight.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/GettyImages-1430544867-4x3-1.jpg?w=916"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">pom-poms</a> at the suburban peasants
while the system celebrates itself. The left side, on the other hand,
does think about it and they have a different definition of democracy.
Their definition of democracy begins with what they think the will of
the people ought to be if it is completely informed and allowed to
blossom.

You see, you can only have democracy when the people are equally
informed and allowed to fully participate in the debate. In order to do
this, the citizens must fully understand their own interests and to do
this they must come to understand their purpose within the framework of
society. Until you can fully know yourself, you cannot fully participate
in the democratic process. As a result, most people are tricked into
voting against their interests or the interests of society.

One part of defending democracy is to prevent this from happening. The
defenders of “our democracy” are always seeking to shape the public
space so that the people can discover their true purpose and act on it
through the process. This cannot happen if there are people out there
spreading disinformation or misinformation, so one job of the democracy
defenders is to root out the bad actors from the public square. You
cannot have democracy if everyone is allowed to speak.

What is important here is that the defenders of democracy are not
defending a process but the idea of the true will of the people. Since
the process can be corrupted, it can result in undemocratic results,
like the 2016 election. In a true democracy bad people like Trump and
his voters do not exist, much less win elections. In order to defend
democracy, the defenders of democracy were forced to use any means
necessary, even undemocratic ones, to stop Donald Trump.

Now, the defenders of democracy assume certain things about the purpose
of society, its natural end point, which means they assume certain
things about the purpose of the people who will one day populate the
fully flowered democracy. The most important foundational item is the
assumption that once everyone is fully democratic and fully understands
her purpose, everyone agrees on the purpose of society. This means
politics withers away as there is nothing to debate.

Since the defenders of democracy understand all of this, the presence of
people who oppose them means society is not democratic. The larger
project requires that these people be removed by any means necessary. As
long as these enemies of democracy are standing in the way of progress,
the defenders of democracy have a right and an obligation to do what is
required to defeat them. It turns out that you can only reach true
democracy through authoritarian means.

That last bit is critical. The defenders of democracy assume that once
the conditions for democracy are firmly and unquestionable in place, the
people in the system will have no choice but to realize their true
purpose as democratic people. At that magical point, politics collapses
as all moral disputes are gone. There is no need for elections and the
rule of law because everyone at all times agrees on everything. There is
no coercion because there is no dissent from the moral order of
democracy.

This is why there can be no compromise between the people who see
democracy as a process and those who see it as a moral conclusion. The
former group not only tolerates dissent but sees it as proof the system
works. The latter group sees dissent as proof the system is failing.
This contrast in moral visions makes it impossible for the two camps to
coexist in the same society. If you want a democratic society, you can
never tolerate people who want a democracy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="gWgsjrcJmjJ55uGdY/0pBg==cb7XZVwyIA7hnnNbEG0M0EFcWa53Q/4qys3kNJYxD0KRnA9vWsaCiaC5N/J0QFeO+rj"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="2bGXfDw4M02mdt/2zMlfgg==cb7GRJSam4y5lxXqFMcOe04uVoRadCdw9DAYXMKfPQ771SXzMXIsPhVvadjC6gakTnP"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
