---
title: "The Bunglers"
date: "2024-03-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31651"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31651"
---

**Note: **Behind the green door is a post about the color blue and a
post about the generational revolution that is coming. The Sunday
podcast was posted late, as I was tied up on some projects. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last week the media outlet Russia Today, which is analogous to PBS or
the BBC, <a
href="https://www.zerohedge.com/geopolitical/complete-disaster-german-govt-scholz-promises-probe-very-serious-leaked-recording-plan"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">released</a> an audio recording of what
it claimed were senior German military officials planning how to launch
a strike on Russia. Specifically, they were discussing how to attack the
Kerch bridge in Crimea with German Taurus missiles, but doing so in such
a way that would not implicate Germany. Later, the German government
acknowledged that it was German air force officials, and the audio was
authentic.

This should be a massive, government toppling scandal in Germany, but
that would require government officials capable of shame. It would also
require a free media, which no longer exists in the West. Instead, the
German government ordered social media companies to ban people who
posted the audio on their networks. The German media, has <a
href="https://www.bild.de/politik/inland/politik-inland/kommentar-von-paul-ronzheimer-putins-wahres-ziel-hinter-dem-lauschangriff-87378808.bild.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">declared</a> that the leak is part of a
sinister plot by Putin to discredit the West and draw attention away
from the death of Alexei Navalny.

Of course, this comes on the heels of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz
blabbering in public about the French and the British having people on
the ground in Ukraine to operate the long-range missiles they have
supplied to Ukraine. That recorded conversation among German military
officials confirms this. The Germans also admit that there is no way for
the Ukrainians to use the German version of these missiles without
German personnel doing the bulk of the work.

The fact that NATO people are providing direct support to Ukraine is one
of the worst kept secrets of the war thus far. The United States has
been providing targeting information to the Ukrainians from surveillance
drones operating over the Black Sea and from satellites stationed over
Ukraine. Most likely, American techs have been operating the Patriot
missile batteries stationed around Kiev. The French have sent their
mercenaries to Ukraine with <a
href="https://www.lemonde.fr/en/international/article/2024/01/26/french-mercenaries-killed-in-ukraine-paris-calls-out-a-russian-disinformation-operation_6466963_4.html#:~:text=On%20Wednesday%2C%20January%2017%2C%20Moscow,building%20in%20Kharkiv%2C%20eastern%20Ukraine."
rel="noopener" target="_blank">many</a> of them being killed.

Aside from the scandalous nature of the call and the fact that someone,
presumably Russia, was able to capture the call quite easily, there is
the question as to why the Russians would publish this audio. If you
have the ability to listen in on your enemies without them knowing about
it or caring about it, you have an edge. Now that this is public, every
European country will be doing a security review and making sure to plug
any holes they have in their communications.

Of course, there is the strong possibility that the Russians did not do
the recording, but a third country was involved. Some of the principles
on the call were in Singapore, which is known to have a first-rate
security service. They may have recorded the audio and sent it along to
the Russians. On the other hand, it could be someone inside the German
government who is unhappy with Scholz. In the wilderness of mirrors,
there are many potential suspects in this case.

However the Russians got the audio, they thought it was more important
to make it public than to conceal the fact that they have it. The reason
is they want the Europeans to know that they are not fooled by what is
happening. If Taurus missiles hit Russian territory, the Russian will
consider it an act of war. Technically, supplying the Ukrainians with
the ability to strike Russia is an act of war all by itself, but
providing the technical support to use the weapons seals the case.

Further, by releasing this audio, the Russians are letting the Europeans
know that the Russians have been restrained to this point. They have
known from the start that NATO people are on the ground helping Ukraine,
but they have not raised the issue or responded to it with force. In
other words, the Russians are telling the Europeans that they should not
press their luck. This is especially important with the rumors of basing
“Ukrainian” F-16’s in Romania.

There is some irony here. Ten years ago, the Russians captured audio of
Victoria Nuland plotting with the American ambassador to Ukraine about
how to topple the Kiev government and install a puppet regime. Nuland
was just in Kiev to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the coup. She was
also bragging about secret plans to strike Russia in the near future, so
maybe the Russians took the opportunity to celebrate the tenth
anniversary in their own way by releasing this audio.

Putting all of that aside for a moment, the truly shocking thing in this
call is the fact that these complex weapons do not work very well.
According to the Germans, they would need six months to get them ready
to use, but then would need months to program them for specific targets.
The lead time for getting them into Ukraine is not the issue, but the
programming time is shocking. The Germans also admit that the Russians
will quickly figure out how to defeat them as well.

These missiles cost between one and two million dollars each. The plan
was to use two waves of fifty missiles on the Kerch bridge. The reason
for so many is the dense Russian air defense systems in Crimea. Even
assuming they could hit the bridge, there is no guarantee they would
knock it out. The Brits used a truck bomb on it last year and the
Russians rebuilt it in a few months. In other words, it will cost the
Germans one hundred million dollars to maybe damage a bridge.

This is not a sustainable approach to war fighting. Another point in the
call was that the Brits and French are now out of these missiles. It
turns out that the missiles are not just expensive to produce, but it
takes a long time. If this public relations stunt went forward, it would
change nothing as the Russians would still be dropping thousands of
rounds of artillery on the Ukrainians every day. The Russian air force
would still be dropping massive bunker busting bombs on Ukrainian
fortifications.

The other point worth mentioning about the call is the participants were
strangely comfortable with lying. The point of the call was to devise a
plan where Germany could launch missile attacks on Russia but do so in a
way that would make it look like the Ukrainians did it. The casual way
in which they discuss this scheme suggests these are men who are
comfortable with lying. The call offers a rare glimpse into the
sociopathic nature of the ruling elite of the West.

The primary takeaway from this affair is that it will have no impact on
Western leaders, who are simply too incompetent to learn from their
error. The German government will eventually go forward with this
scheme. Maybe they get a public relations boost from it or maybe it
fails completely. It will have no impact on the war. The institutional
incompetence of the West is irreversible. The only question is whether
they bumble the world into a nuclear war.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Xs/FoWdqMp6CnYe8CVyc2Q==cb7KiCOajrZ48lylfjutC9c8a1swp1JHh0FWeCSGL34u+woeoJVv9KjJLi4BS4FC8r8"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="0vbP7QpvrOBUAsD0hziJtQ==cb7MV8p+NyXrZniFUjz3mawUc/BbPW4WLC7RZTiZGLk4XSO53696fIphu3YdJaE3USQ"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
