---
title: "Numerology"
date: "2024-09-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32631"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32631"
---

If you pay attention to sports, one of the things you may have noticed
over the last few decades is the rise of numerology. The people making
money from sports entertainment and their fans do not call it
numerology, but they often treat the numbers of the respective games in
the same way mystics treat numbers in life. They think numbers have
qualities beyond the thing they are supposed to represent. Therefore,
the numbers of the game are transformed into magical tokens.

For example, there is a
<a href="https://www.pff.com/grades" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">site</a> called Pro Football Focus that sells itself as
something like a quantitative lab for the game of football. They started
on the claim that they grade every player in every game in the NFL
season, by grading every snap of every game in the NFL season. They
conjured a grading system that they claim lets their clients compare the
value of each player to the value of other players. Their numbers allow
everyone to be a quantitative expert on football.

That last bit is part of the hook. While sports are not complicated,
most fans never play organized team sports, so they know nothing about
the game, beyond their own emotions while looking at the results. The
typical football fan could not tell you the difference between zone
blocking and zone blitzing. Baseball fans have no idea why an off-speed
pitch is effective. Soccer fans could not tell you anything about the
game, as the strategy is a total mystery to them.

What the numerology of sports does for the fan is give them ready made
truths they can easily digest and memorize, so they can feel confident
when assessing what they are seeing on their televisions. The baseball
fan can confidently say Play X is not a good player, because his WAR is
below three. The football fan can say that his team lost because the
left tackle got a sixty-grade from Pro Football Focus. These numbers
bestow a sense of knowledge on the person using them.

Of course, the people using these numbers have no idea what lies behind
them, which is the magic of numerology. This allows the sports fan to
think these numbers are predictive of future behavior, when, at best,
they merely quantify past behavior in a way that allows for further
investigation. Many of the numbers that arise from the numerology of
sports are meaningless nonsense. The numbers from Pro Football Focus are
a good example.

If you look at their site, they state that they are endeavoring to do
something that is practically impossible. They employ a team of 600
people, but only 60 are qualified to grade games. These sixty people are
then tasked with assigning a pass/fail/neutral grade to every player on
every play and have the results hours after the game has been completed.
Not only are they doing this for all sixteen NFL games but the fifty or
so college football games each weekend.

Even if they solved the man-hour problem in such a task, the numbers
they produce are based on purely subjective criteria. Anyone who has
played sports understands that a player can do his job as dictated by
the coach, but still fail. In other words, the only way anyone can know
if a player executed his assignment in a game is to know what the
coaches assigned him. You can surmise in many cases, but that requires a
deep understanding of the game.

The ridiculousness of the numbers do not matter, even when it is pointed
out to the people who love using them. There is a magic quality to
assigning numbers, especially numbers that have been sacralized, to the
sport. Scan a sports fan forum right now and you will find lots of posts
about the grades from PFF. The fans want to believe these numbers tell
them something about the prospects for their favorite team, so they
accept the validity of the numbers, despite the absurdity.

At this point, some readers will be tempted to post the dumbest comment
on the internet which is, “I do not own a television” followed by the
second dumbest comment, which is, “I do not watch sportsball.” No one
cares that you do not own a TV or that you spend your leisure time in
self-flagellation. That is not the point of this post. The point is that
in something as banal as sports entertainment, numerology has crept in
and taken up a place in the mind of the viewer.

The reason for this is our society is saturated in numerology. In every
large company there are hundreds of worker bees churning out tables and
graphs that have meaning to the intended audience, well beyond the
factual. Show the mid-level manager a report with sales figures and he
gets excited. Show those numbers in the form of a dashboard and he
passes out in ecstasy. There is a whole industry built on the magical
power of showing numbers in the form of a dashboard.

The “data analyst” and the “data scientist” have become the court
astrologers of the business world because of an obsession with numbers.
The things they produce for their employer are not just about
understanding the descriptive reality of the company but also
understanding the prescriptive reality of the company. When the needle
on the meter is in the green, everyone is in a state of grace. If the
meter moves into the yellow, then it means someone inside is cavorting
with Old Scratch.

This helps explain the obsession with AI. Numerology is just a way of
creating an authority outside the people involved in the process. The
sports fan does not want to know who is posting those grades after the
football game. They just want to believe that there is some objective,
omniscient force that knows the truth. Similarly, the people we call the
left demand AI not talk about a certain Austrian painter, because they
want AI to validate their beliefs and thus be their moral authority.

This is why the game of baseball has been taken over by robots. Quants
crank out decision trees they supply to the managers, which the manager
consults at every decision point in the game. Everyone embraces this,
even when the results are bad, for the same reason the Muslim says,
“inshallah” before embarking on a project. The results are in the hands
of an authority everyone must obey and trust. If the team loses, then
the mystery force behind the numbers must have willed it.

One of the unexpected results of the proliferation of numbers has been
the collapse in the ability to rationalize the numbers. The numbers of
life used to be simple measures of what needed to be measured. Now they
are treated like omens that not only indicate the future but weigh on
our moral understanding of ourselves. The bad stats from a game
reinforce the notion among the fans of the losing team that they deserve
to feel bad because their team deserved to lose.

This helps explain why the sports fan went from being a guy enjoying men
compete to a guy whose identity is tangled up in the identity of a team.
Numerology of sports did not create the bug man organizing his life
around televised sports, but it coevolved with the general phenomenon of
numerology, which itself is the result of the search for new moral
authorities to replace faith and tradition. The numbers of life have now
become signs from the gods, whoever they may be.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="H7cuVRCnahWNGi4VMhaUag==cb7WZ1VOYz8vyBf6TBjskAItKCEeOORp8fF0fpki8hJF38akoBO8kE1h2hiMOiesCiH"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="7w3Aqef+S8vuY6NTJ63dVA==cb74Z7ibONQmG+F8UfLpEGf8xbJ5Oll2SYDG4HV1Da4sR21AmoguFA9jWPd6P/SRqZd"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
