---
title: "Abyss Road"
date: "2024-01-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31409"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31409"
---

The entirely authentic and on the level Republican Party primary is
about to kick off for real next week with the Iowa Caucus. The totally
legitimate and sincere debates came to an end with Ron DeSantis and
Nikki Haley declared the finalists. They booted Chris Christie and Vivek
Ramaswamy from the debates because no one cared about Christie and
Ramaswamy was too normal. Despite both having no chance to win next
week, the party had DeSantis and Haley debate last night.

Of course, none of this is on the level. The reason there are debates at
all is everyone knows the party will remove Trump from the ballot if the
court does not go along with the crackpot scheme to use the 14th
amendment. Regime media is holding these debates thinking they will get
to pick the replacement. They are probably right about that, given the
ridiculousness of the Republican Party. Even the candidates admit they
are running to be the party’s regime approved booby prize.

Politics has always been theater, but now it is the theater of the
absurd where everyone pretends that this is all on the level, while
knowing that it is not on the level and that everyone in the country
knows it is not on the level. The Solzhenitsyn line captures this farce
of a primary campaign perfectly. We know that they are lying and they
know they are lying. They know that we know they are lying. We also know
that they know we know they are lying, but they keep lying.

The only drama at this point is who the Democrats tell the Republicans
to pick for their nominee once Trump is booted from the campaign. Haley
is the darling of the regime because she is a soulless automaton who
will do what she is told. DeSantis has some friends in the regime, but
he has two brain cells so there is always the risk he decides to think
for himself. The party could always look for someone else, like Glenn
Younkin, if they think they need to grease the rubes some more.

What goes unnoticed in all of this is the collapse of the GOP. They
handed these fake debates to cranks of lunatics. The big final showdown
that is supposed to sell one or the other zombies to the voters was held
by a collection of far left nutters on CNN, a network that remains an
epithet among Republican voters. The only way it could be more obvious
that they are controlled by the other party is if the debate were held
in the White House and moderated by Kamala Harris.

The reason the media is pushing Haley so hard is she holds all of the
same positions as Joe Biden, except she can string a sentence together
and is not drooling oat meal all over herself in public. Haley is
running around telling voters that Hillary Clinton is her idol and was
her inspiration to run for office. DeSantis is running as George Bush
and many members of the media still remember hating George Bush. That
and he is a click away from climbing out of a tunnel in Crown Heights.

What we are seeing here is the consolidation of the center that has been
the pattern all across Europe for over a decade. Unwilling or unable to
address the issues most concerning to voters, the main parties
consolidate as a unified front against any opposition to the status quo.
Parties that are supposed to be ideologically incompatible suddenly find
a way to cooperate. The Republicans and Democrats are now effectively in
a coalition government to defend the regime.

The one saving grace is that the regime has proven itself to be
increasingly incompetent, so this scheme to rig the 2024 election could
end in disaster. Current polling says Trump wins handily in Iowa. The
game is to make it look like Haley is viable as an alternative, so if
she bombs then that is a problem. On the other hand, DeSantis is as
popular as colon cancer in New Hampshire, so in a few weeks the party
could be left with two corpses running as the not-Trump option.

That will make picking one of them difficult. Even if they find an
alternative, they still face the prospect of a riot at the convention.
The people who show up at these things are the committed supporters and
they wear red hats these days. Unless the party closes the convention
entirely, they could be facing a modern version of the 1968 Democratic
convention, which ended up in street battles. A lot of things can wrong
when morons are plotting the shenanigans.

Then you have the fact that the universe has a sense of humor. Smart
schemers always ask “what happens if the plan fails?” Our ruling
schemers never ask this and the universe always throws a wrench in their
plans. The brewing disaster that is Project Ukraine is a good example.
The schemers all assumed the plan would work and when things went wrong,
they were left with nothing. The same thing could happen with their
scheme to rig the 2024 presidential election.

In the end, the normal person is left wondering to wonder if it is time
to take the old advice from the hippies and turn off, tune out, drop out
of the system. If voting is not a complete farce and the regime is
committed to rigging the results even if the votes are counted honestly,
then what is the point? The right answer may be to deny them the thing
they desire most, which is your consent. If you drop out of the system,
then they cannot manufacture your consent.

This being the modern age, tuning out is near impossible, so the more
likely result is the disconnect between the official truth about our
system and the reality of our system grows wider and the people grow
angrier. This is the road to ruin where the regime reacts to discontent
with shenanigans, which leads to further discontent and then more
shenanigans from the regime. Those two zombies on stage last night were
just mile markers on the road the national abyss.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="gm5zJawgO9B7VqPZfg5V5A==cb7HDVuMSOfAfBjcUYGh4HzRL+m1V5WSpnJV0g2QlRbFjiAb2maaH0j1tSdxHNHDmYA"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="tadMOHWzmt6q3/MYLdiXqw==cb7gkjdt7x+DUX0JoxnMq76LcNYb0lBVmmGwvuRXRYVHJjEESBV5EpWYCd8BA5JFkX5"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
