---
title: "Imperial Outlook"
date: "2024-01-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31371"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31371"
---

One of the many complaints in the brief against conservatives is that
they care more about Israel than they do about the southern border. A
similar complaint comes up with regards to the war in Ukraine.
Professional conservatives do not care about the things that normal
people think are important. Instead, professional conservatives, like
Ben Shapiro, spend their days convincing normal people that the concerns
of Israel or the Kagan cult matter more than the opioid problem.

While this is true, professional conservatives are not the ones
spearheading this approach to politics. Look at the other side and you
see the same. The people we call the Left spend their time telling the
world that the mundane things that can and should be addressed by
government must take a back seat to the bogeyman. Joe Biden is <a
href="https://apnews.com/article/biden-trump-2024-democracy-threat-national-traumas-66167f70a167592c23067180fbe55910"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">kicking off</a> his campaign by visiting
places where the bogeyman was seen doing the things they claim the
bogeyman does.

In other words, it is not just so-called conservatives who spend their
time focused on things over the rainbow. It is that our politics, in
general, deliberately shifts the focus from the local and practical to
the distant and obscure. No one running for anything talks about the
fact that America has a $34 trillion dollar debt and that we spend
almost $15,000 per person per year on medical services. America is a
sick society that is becoming too broke to mend itself.

In fairness, a candidate who ran on a platform of deregulating the
health care rackets and restoring order to the legal system would have
no audience. Over several generations the people have been conditioned
to care more about the bogeyman and Israel than their own neighborhood.
A practical candidate could go into a suburb strewn with trash and
illegal aliens promising to clean up both and the locals would demand to
know his position on the war in Gaza or abortion.

This was not always the case. Within living memory congressional
candidates would show up in their district to ask for votes. The whole
“kissing babies” thing was a joke because it was a real thing that
happened. Not only did politicians mingle with the voters, but office
holders also responded to questions and complaints from them. Not so
long-ago elected officials held town-style gatherings where normal
people in the area could show up and ask questions.

Nothing like that happens now. The closest you get is Trump flying
around to rural airports to hold his raucous rallies. Joe Biden will run
his 2024 campaign from his beach mansion in Delaware. Occasionally they
will produce a television event that makes it seem like he is in front
of real people. Most likely these will be done using modern technology
as he is incapable of forming a sentence now. His avatar will talk about
the bogeyman and maybe Ukraine or Israel.

What we are experiencing is an inverted version of America. The founding
of the country was by people who had the exact opposite view of the
world. They came to the new world for selfish reasons. They did not want
“freedom” or “liberty” and they did not give a damn about American
values. They wanted cheap land and an opportunity to provide a better
life for themselves and their family. Their patriotism, if it existed at
all, was focused on the things close to them.

Well into the 19th century the typical American had little reason to
care about the federal government because it was far away and did
nothing that was of a great concern to the average person. The town
council, on the other hand, was important because it did important
things. People cared about those offices and who held them because those
people had the power to do things that mattered locally, and the people
were primarily focused on local matters.

The point here is that empire does not just invert the sensibilities of
the ruling class but also the people in the empire. Throughout the Cold
War, Finland was sandwiched between the two great empires. As a normal
country with normal citizens, they focused on what was best for Finland
and the Finnish people. They did not worry themselves about communism
versus capitalism, other than when they needed to placate one or the
other side of the Cold War.

Now that Finland has submitted itself to the empire, the primary focus
of the Finnish state will be the bogey man and the enemies of the
empire. Finnish politicians will feel the need to have a position on
Israel. They will shake their fists at the current enemy of the empire.
Meanwhile, the borders will be left open, and the social capital will be
monetized and hauled away by the usual suspects, but Finns will feel
good about hating the current bogeyman of the empire.

It is the nature of empire to flip the normal relationships upside down
so that people focus on what is far away rather than what is near. Right
now, conservatives are cheering that Harvard replaced their black
lesbian president with someone who looks like he is from an antisemitic
pamphlet. Meanwhile the public schools are full of pedophiles and drug
dealers. No one should care about Harvard’s president, but they should
care about who is running the local schools.

It very well may be that the antidote to the problems of empire is to
stop thinking like the subject of an empire. When people care more about
the school board elections than the presidential election, it is no
longer possible for the beneficiaries of empire to frame elections
around the issues of empire. Imagine if the next GOP debate was about
the color of crime rather than how much everyone loves Israel. Of
course, no one currently in the race would qualify under that system.

This is why empires must always run their
<a href="https://people.uncw.edu/kozloffm/glubb.pdf" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">course</a>. The empire is born and soon the focus of
everyone is on the maintenance of the empire. The people in the empire
come to define themselves in terms of the empire. The empire then fades,
and the people have to relearn how to be normal again. The empire must
end before people can replace their imperial identity with something
new. It is why the only true patriots are those who oppose the Global
American Empire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="EgDUXgAhNz1BTmoxxr0nSA==cb7fQlcHdOq9vVaSrBIPxixoULhzV6l3s6RR1f4SwmIwozj2kWU+8KRgTIu6VvJejxa"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="S3B8nqJANXPvgWGDUEKkbQ==cb7o2j8vcoVosilBMIE4xEAI3ZoPdOHmKP1lB5sLfVs/hjTNTq93PgzITMWxNr8oWmq"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
