---
title: "The Floor Is Yours"
date: "2024-03-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31781"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31781"
---

**Note:** Tuesday I was on the Killstream with Ethan Ralph. It was a fun
conversation about a bunch of different things. Here is the <a
href="https://rumble.com/v4loglz-killstream-tuesday-live-diddy-fallout-more-3pmish-est.html?start=13065"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">link</a>. I arrive at about the three
hour mark, so fast forward to 3:37:45.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the projects that has been on the drawing board for far too long
is to upgrade this site and add some additional features. One reason for
this is simply to freshen things up a bit, as the site design is over a
decade old. There is something to say for tradition, but people expect
websites to freshen up their style every so often. A site that sticks
with an old look and feel is often assumed to be abandoned or poorly
maintained, so giving this site a refresh is something that is long
overdue.

Another motivation behind a refresh is to add some features. The problem
with using WordPress is most of the plugins do not work. I am not on the
WordPress server so do not mention that for the sixth million time. I
host my own site, but I use the open-source WordPress software that
anyone can download. Even the plugins you can buy are a roll of the dice
in terms of functionality. The people behind them often have names that
look like an eye chart and the support is what you would expect.

Moving off of WordPress opens the door for other options that are more
professional and have real people supporting the product. One option is
Locals, which is connected to Rumble in some way. This is becoming
popular with the livestreaming crowd as it offers a paywall service,
credit card processing and additional features to go along with the
normal livestream chat services. The trouble is that it is intended for
video creators, so it lacks the features a writer expects.

Substack is slowly building out its services. They can host audio and
video, which people with a green door subs already know. They started
out as a writing platform, so they have a lot of useful features for
writers. More than a few “magazines” now run on Substack using their
custom design features. The risk here is being on a platform that could
easily be taken over by lunatics. There is already a war against the
site by lunatics, so it is not hard to see where that is headed.

The final service that people use is Gumroad. Paul Ramsey and Keith
Woods have been on this platform for a long time. This is a small
platform, so they are not throwing people off for heresy. This is a
familiar pattern now. The video site D-Live did this until the hammer
came down and they lost most of their user base, because they were
forced to ban the blasphemers. Given the site is owned by [a very
strange little man](https://twitter.com/shl?lang=en) from over the
rainbow, one should not be optimistic about its future.

The alternative to using a service is to roll my own site, which avoids
many of the problems of using a service and opens the door to
customization. I could also keep the Substack and SubscribeStar
platforms and allow those users to access pay-per-view content on the
main site. Both have API’s for this, which means this site would talk to
those sites to see if a user here is a user there. If so, then the user
here would be treated as a paid customer here.

This would mean that users can get behind the green door two additional
ways, as I can set up crypto and cash payments here. For those too
paranoid to use a credit card online, you could send cash, checks, gold
doubloons or whatever you have through the mail and get a green door
account. The crypto users could also send their favorite form of digital
money. I could also integrate GabPay, which I am told works pretty well
now, even though they [could not
service](https://vdare.com/articles/regime-suppresses-credit-card-donations-to-vdare-com-but-you-can-still-give-and-buy-livestream-tickets-to-conference-by-e-check-or-real-check)
VDare.

If you start with a clean sheet of paper, then it is the time to rethink
how something works or does not work. It may be time to rethink some
features or add new features, like a better comment section or even a
group messaging system. Comment sections have been killed off mostly due
to the fact that site owners get the sads when they see the comments,
but this site has a lively comment section, so making it better by
adding additional features sounds like a good idea.

Right away, I think a better editing system is in order. I have tried a
million different plugins for this and all of them are terrible. I tried
one that I paid for but I suspect the publisher sabotaged it, as it
stopped working for some mysterious reason and they stopped responding
to my inquiries. Creating a comment system that works as intended from
the start would solve this. That means the ability to format comments
and edit them as long as you are a registered user.

Along the same lines, I think green door users should blow past the spam
filters, so they never have to wait for moderation. I have to check the
moderation queue a dozen times a day, and it is always regular users in
there. Not only is that annoying to the user, but it is very annoying to
me. It would also be useful for green door users to have the ability to
limit the visibility of their posts to other green door users. This is a
common feature on sports sites that looks like a good idea.

The final novelty I have in mind is to let green door users create their
own page and post their own material. The kook sites like Daily Kos
pioneered this years ago and it would add a nice wrinkle to the site.
There are commenters who put a lot of time and effort into their
commentary, so if they had a way to do long form commentary within the
context of the comment stream, it might make for a more dynamic site.
Who knows, maybe it would attract other writers.

The point of this post is to solicit ideas and demands. Next month I
want to flesh out the basic design and then get to work building it
before summer. With the economy slowing down I will have some free time
from the day job, so I may as well put the time to good use and upgrade
the site. Feel free to send e-mails or comment here about what you would
like to see or not like to see. The point of the upgrade is to make the
site better for the readers and users, so the floor is yours.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>. You can send gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O.
Box 1047 Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="055C6ycaxMZZRsjHbi3viw==cb7oOgVoaCvBDeRrh2DUTjm1R0PWbzP3or4PCvES8PCS6gH0nyXBMXh3SprJD3YkMxf"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="QgjuMTkTZDhmiw3DNmDf8Q==cb7WA0JRwNq4FXJTEjvcdMmGIwXV7RL3OHdeP3PGRr3K8xkRcBH1qezLl4uIy2ULfyw"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
