---
title: "The Real World War"
date: "2024-04-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31802"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31802"
---

**Note:** As everyone probably knows, VDare has been under assault by
the regime for years and may finally be forced to close down. They have
been de-banked so the only way to send them money at the moment is
<a href="https://www.givesendgo.com/vdare" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">GiveSendGo</a>. If you can spare a few bucks, they could
sure use it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Over the last two years most people who bother paying attention to the
world have figured out that the American Empire is waging a proxy war on
Russia. The primary proxy is Ukraine, but lesser proxies are also
involved. Armenia used to have good relations with Russia but has now
been turned into a Western catspaw for the purpose of stirring up
trouble in the region. America overthrew the government of Pakistan two
years ago so they would not cooperate with Russia.

We could be seeing another front in the war. Israel made the outlandish
decision to bomb the Iranian embassy in Damascus. Reportedly the target
was a high-ranking Iranian general who was at the facility holding
meetings. It could be the other people were the real targets or it could
just have been a target of opportunity as Israel tries to draw Iran into
a war. Regardless, targeting an embassy in a third country violates
centuries of precedent and custom.

Embassies are technically the territory of the country operating them,
so this attack on the Iranian embassy is the same as an attack on Iran.
That is how the world will view it and certainly how Iran sees it. The
Middle East is a dirty place and all of the players, especially Israel,
are dirty players, but this is well beyond the norm. There is also the
fact that Israel is bombing the capital of Syria, even though there is
no state of war between the two countries.

The way to think of this is to imagine if the Russians hit the American
embassy in Poland with a missile. Russia is not legally at war with
Poland or America, even if both countries are aiding and abetting
Ukraine. If the Russians attacked Poland, then it is war, and everyone
understands this. Somehow, Israel and her supporters in America seem to
think this rule does not apply to Israel. Both <a
href="https://www.scmp.com/news/china/diplomacy/article/3257605/china-joins-chorus-condemnation-over-israeli-attack-iranian-consulate-syria"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">China</a> and <a
href="https://english.news.cn/20240402/c9a9a0d7a900493d8fe8ced3a96cef54/c.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Russia</a> have come out with strong
statements condemning the attack.

One of the worst kept secrets on earth right now is that Israel wants a
war with Iran, and they assume this will draw in the United States. The
Israelis wanted this war back in the Bush years during the Iraq war.
They assume Iran would lose such a war and the regime would be toppled
as a result. Israel foreign policy is based on the idea that if the Arab
world is in chaos, there will be no organized resistance to Israel. Of
course, Iran is also working on getting nuclear weapons.

The question now is what happens next. The Biden administration does not
want a war with Iran as the military is stretched thin. Presumably, they
will try to make some sort of backroom deal with Iran to defuse things.
Russia is the chief sponsor of Syria and has air defense systems in the
country. To this point they have not shot down Israeli jets, but that
could change now. Russia is also a partner with Iran so the Russians
will need to do something to show support for both countries.

China has been making inroads into the region, primarily by helping to
facilitate a reproachment between the Saudis and Iran. The peace that
now exists between the Houthis and the Saudis is largely a result of
this effort. Iran sponsors the Houthis, and they agreed to make peace
with the Saudis as part of this warming relationship between Iran and
Saudi Arabia. Note the Saudis have not allowed America to use its
airspace to attack the Houthis.

In other words, this is not twenty years ago when Iran was alone and
largely isolated from the world due to American sanctions. Iran now has
two enormously powerful allies, and it is slowly rejoining the Arab
alliance led by Saudi Arabia. Iran now has options that it did not have
two decades ago. Instead of retaliation we will probably see an effort
to win a diplomatic war against Israel, with the help of China and
Russia, as Israel is, for all practical purposes, a tentacle of the
American Empire.

This is where the real war is being waged at the moment. The American
Empire is based on the assertion that the post-Cold War world is a
rules-based one led by the United States, who enforces the rules. The
repeated violations of the rules by Washington are what drives both
Russia and China. Their argument in favor of a multipolar world is that
Washington cannot be trusted to follow the rules, so Washington letting
Israel violate important rules is a proof of sorts.

There is also the obvious fact that Washington can no longer control
Israel. You get to be the lone superpower when everyone has to obey.
Israel thumbing its nose at Washington over Gaza is a problem. Israel
bombing embassies in third countries is a humiliation of Washington. The
Washington led order rests on everyone, including Israel, accepting that
order. If Israel does not respect that order, then it will not be long
before the rest of the world follows suit.

Of course, what we are seeing in this new world war is chaos all along
the borders of the American Empire. Washington’s plan for Russia for the
last three decades has been to create chaos around the borders of
Russia, believing this would slowly sap her economic and political
strength. This is what is now happening to the American Empire, which is
forced to race around the world dealing with crises, many of which are
the result of its own actions, like we see in Ukraine.

This is what may prevent a regional war in the Middle East. Russia and
China know that time is on their side. As a result, Iran also can play
the waiting game. At some point, the American Empire will have no choice
but to give up on the region. It has largely been driven out at this
point. There are American troops in Syria and Iraq, but the cost of
supporting them will soon be prohibitive. Instead of Iran retaliating
against Israel, she can wait and deal with Israel at a later date.

What we are seeing is the world organizing not for a great final war
with the American Empire but the world organizing to manage the decline
of the empire. Washington stirs up trouble hoping to preserve itself by
unsettling rivals and Israel hopes to start a regional war before her
patron is too weak. Meanwhile, the rising powers of the world are trying
to avoid a real war with the declining American Empire. The real world
war is a war to survive the end of the last empire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="USrF1sPstweGivQssb/h7Q==cb7q8TM5osroHvRzvErdLsLbO5eVxU+0XjBUq1rBHzan3Nv4m0X+fQKBJQgcNaQPfR8"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="tw9INGv8BdBkq6zKs5t7tQ==cb7hGRx5obzsRalujQsERz4V4n8zZ1QpWLsLLuObCazxsZyHABpjWIfxhcZxILgO1pN"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
