---
title: "Liar Land"
date: "2024-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31827"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31827"
---

**Note \#1:** Behind the green door is a post about Bonnie and Clyde, a
post about narrative in the managerial class and the Sunday podcast.
Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note \#2:** Here is a roundup of the shows I was on last week, for
those who love the sound my voice. Here is my appearance on the <a
href="https://rumble.com/v4loglz-killstream-tuesday-live-diddy-fallout-more-3pmish-est.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Killstream</a> I was on with a
<a href="https://youtu.be/Ixj2DiYZgdk?si=u_sIqnW4MxnPmP2Q"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">show</a> with a young YouTuber and
another young YouTuber named
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UwZPYSXj4Lc" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">J Burden</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you were to go back in time, just a couple of generations, and snatch
up some politically active people and bring them forward to this age,
they would not only be disappointed that things did not turn out as they
predicted, but they would be horrified by what has happened with the
public square. They would wonder why there even is a public square when
it is now so polluted with deception. How can you have a public debate
when so many start with a lie?

This is one of those things that is hard to appreciate about this age as
it has crept up on us like the fog and become the new normal. No one
tunes into public affairs shows expecting a good faith effort to present
the issues and the arguments in a fair and honest way or an effort to
inform the viewer. It is not even an attempt to persuade in most cases,
but something like a revival for a certain audience. The performers say
the expected things and the viewers cheer.

It is not just in the narrow area of performative politics. Deception is
now the coin of the realm, even where the truth would serve the parties
better. For example, the ongoing feud between Candace Owens and The
Daily Wire. None of this would have happened if the Daily Wire had been
honest and said they dumped Owens because she is critical of Israel and
the platform is pro-Israel. No one would have been surprised and it
would have been a one-day affair, but instead they chose to lie.

This is not a peculiarity of the Daily Wire. Lying is now the new normal
and truth telling is a good way to get hurled into the void. Whole
subjects have been consigned to the shadows because you cannot speak
candidly about them, and the lies are so absurd that even the performers
cannot say them with a straight face. Crime is the most obvious example
of a topic that no longer gets discussed by “serious analysts” because
you are not allowed to speak honestly about it.

Crime is a great example of endemic lying. We can no longer trust the
FBI crime data because everyone involved in <a
href="https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/restoring-america/fairness-justice/2953562/bad-data-from-the-fbi-mislead-about-crime/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">reporting</a> it now lies about it. It
used to be that the FBI Uniform Crime Reporting was the gold standard
for data, but now it is like everything else in that it is the product
of perfidy. The police departments lie about their stats to please the
politicians, who lie about the stats to hide the truth from the people
they claim to represent. It is liars all the way down.

Every day, the White House sends out that goofy looking black women to
address the media on the issues of the day. Everyone in the room knows
she is a moron, and everyone knows she is just repeating obvious lies
written down in her book that is provided to her by the White House.
Everyone in the room then pretends that this is a sincere presentation
of events. They refuse to ask obvious questions or address the obvious
lies, but instead continue like it is normal.

That is the thing. It is normal. Karine Jean-Pierre is the most absurd
and ridiculous example so far, but well within the trend. No reasonable
person can accept anything from official sources at face value. The only
way to read the news is to first start with the assumption that the
truth is from the set of things not mentioned in the news. If you see
your picture in the news with your name in the caption, you best check
your birth certificate as it is a good chance you are not who you think.

What you see when you lay up a trivial internet drama alongside official
pronouncements from the state is that lying is the new normal. Whether
it is a small issue or a vitally important issue, the first instinct of
everyone involved is to lie and often lie fantastically. It is as if
there is a secret competition for who can generate the most outlandish
lie each day.
<a href="https://twitter.com/joelpollak/status/1776827104518447176"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here</a> is a great example of a lie so
outlandish that it is hard to imagine anyone doing it without being
struck by lightning.

The question is whether this is the result of a corrupt and rotten
ruling class or is it the inevitable result of democratic society. In
favor of the latter is the observation by the Persians that the ancient
Greeks habitualized lying to one another. The agora, the place where
Greeks bought and sold things, debated issues of the day, and conducted
public affairs was a riot of deception. Winning the argument and winning
the sale were the product or clever deception and storytelling.

In the former case, it is clear that the ruling class started to change
for the worse after the end of the Cold War. The Clinton’s brought a
style of lying to Washington that sent our politics into the abyss of
perpetual deception. The financialization of the economy shifted the
focus away from building a better mousetrap to creating new and
increasingly complex financing of the mouse trap business. These schemes
were clever but devoid of any truth value.

As is often the case, it is a combination of these things and some
others, but the result is what matters. We now live in a carnival of
lies. It is tempting to think that this cannot last, but much of the
world lives this way. The reason conspiracy theories are so popular
around most of the world is they make more sense than official truth.
They also let people think that at the heart of the whirlwind of
official lies is a truth that is both rational and reasonable. It lets
them sleep at night.

Can Western societies function this way? It is hard to know. A low-IQ,
low-trust population can be manipulated by clever midwits, but a
high-IQ, naturally trusting society may grow violently irritated by a
perfidious midwit ruling class. The general unhappiness we see may be
the result of living in a world where stupid people, who think they are
clever, tell us obvious lies. One can tolerate someone like Karine
Jean-Pierre for so long before something must be done.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="57uP5oZpZcXuWJjDaqZoww==cb77eexXL2w4HEgPkMLGfs2faem9M/4++opzFNUe1o4Dk9xDbemQ9mvpxQvMpSDnBbm"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="jmJlic3EzseYj2m/tizXOQ==cb7TrVZcaTo4KB7etatRAr3SfX2kZOCis/0gxyTCwCqGas02px/8u6sutB8L6HcNsHk"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
