---
title: "Replacement Theory"
date: "2024-01-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Immigration
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31456"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31456"
---

Imagine a medieval city is under siege and the prince of the city is in
his palace supposedly working with his advisors on how to break the
siege. The people of the city are rationing food as no one knows how
long the siege will last. The prince and his people, however, are living
the good life. Now, imagine that the prince is quietly plotting a way to
fling open the gates of the city at night so that the besiegers can rush
in and have their way with the people of the city.

It sounds like an impossible scenario, but that is the world in which we
find ourselves with regards to the immigration issue. The Constitution
gives the federal government control over immigration policy. Supreme
court rulings have recognized Congress as having plenary power over all
aspects of immigration. It is one of those powers exclusive to the
federal government. Congress passes laws on immigration and it is the
duty of the executive to enforce them.

Of course, that is not happening. Congress has been refusing to pass
sensible immigration laws for decades now. Whenever the Republicans have
power, they start talking about amnesty. When Democrats have power, they
start talking about granting citizenship to every human on earth.
Meanwhile, the executive branch does nothing to enforce the existing
laws. Instead, they scheme with both sides to increase the flow of
illegals, while waxing romantic about the glories of immigration.

Like the prince at the beginning, the sovereign is deliberately failing
in its basic duty while scheming to harm the people. The recent court
ruling that will allow the border patrol to dismantle the razor wire
barriers installed by the state of Texas on one part of the border
illustrates the problem. The Biden administration went to court so they
can throw open the gates in order to encourage more illegal immigration.
SCOTUS sided with them until the issue is fully resolved.

Now, it is important to note that the court ruling was limited and
temporary, as the issue is part of a larger case in the Fifth Circuit.
It is also important to note that this should have been a 9-0 ruling,
but four justices are alarmed enough about the problem to break with a
century of precedent. Again, immigration, including border control, is a
power reserved exclusively to the federal government. Under normal
conditions, this case never reaches the Supreme Court.

The immigration issue is not an isolated issue. People engaged with this
issue often miss the fact that the federal government is derelict in its
duties across the board and often colludes with those seeking to destroy
the people. This Breitbart <a
href="https://www.breitbart.com/tech/2024/01/20/study-thousands-of-companies-are-monitoring-every-facebook-user/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> on systematic corporate theft
is a good example. These companies steal your activity, which is your
property, in order to use it against you. The government literally
exists to prevent this sort of thing from happening.

This Twitter
<a href="https://threadreaderapp.com/thread/1748480778445447323.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">thread</a> about a firm called Pendulum,
that exists to help powerful people use that stolen data to create
disinformation campaigns, is another example of how the government not
only ignores its duties, but colludes with the enemies of the people in
order to harm the people. That company is literally a corporate bullshit
generator, but instead of being a source of entertainment, it seeks to
be one of the many hands of the state throwing open the gates to the
barbarians.

The point of the ruler, the reason for this role to exist, whether it is
a prince, a warrior-king, a republic or the present managerial elite, is
to protect the people. That is the primary reason for there to be a
ruler or ruling class. Government is a protection racket whether it
operates by consent or by imposition. A prince who flings open the gates
to the barbarians or a managerial elite that defines itself in hostile
opposition to the people is a contradiction that cannot endure very
long.

This is why the court will struggle with this immigration case. It has
never had to deal with a federal government that deliberately undermines
the rationale for its own existence in this way. Instead, the court is
equipped to deal with disputes between the states and the federal
government or individuals and the government. It always assumes that the
issue at hand is the government trying to do too much. The prince
flinging open the gates is truly novel.

This brings up another question. Is the failure of the political class
with regards to immigration a cause or a symptom? In other words, is
what we are seeing deliberate or simply due to the collapse of the
political system? Politics is the puppet show the ruling class puts on
for us, so maybe the political dysfunction we are seeing is a reflection
of a ruling class that is in crisis. Maybe the reason the state cannot
perform its basic functions is it no longer able to predictably
accomplish them.

All of this is beside the point for the people. Like those people hiding
in the city thinking their prince will come up with a plan to break the
siege, Americans continue to assume the system will eventually right
itself. In the days of princes, when the people lost faith in their
prince, they abandoned him to his enemies. Just as it is axiomatic that
the primary duty of the state is protection, it is axiomatic that
whenever the state fails in this duty the people must find a way to
replace it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="73USHbUPoHTqugWDv7/7kw==cb7szP5HX9rkPpMxhsDo4zYlNOmREVCYttIMGOZYtCwbSTUZHqNCHgkEPxIThzZElS6"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="0nPUqmjNHlGFjh1IsNt/hA==cb7ZEmny81TeMfHw2noG45vz81KfdjYPYYXh1QZBeBrojtO4LwrJME3rW1Y/9zi0Ekr"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
