---
title: "Illiberal Multiracialism"
date: "2024-03-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31774"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31774"
---

This
[post](https://twitter.com/VivekGRamaswamy/status/1771953077244862971)
on Twitter from Vivek Ramaswamy got a lot of attention and not the good
kind of attention he has been expert at attracting. Instead, the replies
were full of baffled people wondering how he could say such stupid
things. To many people, it looked like the sort of race-swapping that is
common with Hollywood. Instead of black Vikings he was saying there were
black roman emperors. He then went on to claim that these truths were
somehow erased from history.

As many pointed out, there were no black emperors and Philip the Arab
looked like a typical Roman at the time, as in European, because North
Africa was settled by people from the other side of the Mediterranean.
The “browning” of North Africa happened long after the Romans were gone.
The best part of that thread is he was buried by comments correcting him
for his nonsense statements. Maybe white people have reached a point
where they will not tolerate this stuff.

The post, however, highlights the impossibility of a multiracial society
that operates along liberal democratic lines. Liberal democracy assumes
a natural equality among people in that we are born with natural
entitlements. Therefore, we get equal rights and privileges in a liberal
society. That is fine for an ad hoc arrangement. Pirate ships were
egalitarian in their operations, for example, but the pirate ship was
never intended to be a permanent arrangement among the diverse men.

Human societies assume permanence and that means they require a story
for how the society came together. The Romans, for example, had the
legend of Romulus and Remus who founded the city of Rome. T*he Rape of
the Sabine Women* is another important part of the story of the Roman
people. The origin myths of a people are specific to a people; thus,
their history is specific to them. In other words, a people’s identity
is *exclusive* to them.

This is why a multiracial egalitarian society is impossible. You have
different people with different identities rooted in different origin
stories. Any effort to write the origin of one people into the story of
the other people will be viewed as theft. Vivek Ramaswamy in that tweet
was trying to steal a part of European history on order to insert his
people into your story. No doubt he saw the resistance to this as a
slight against him and people like him. This is now part of his people’s
story.

You see this with the old race divide in America. Black people have an
origin story that depends on white people being the villain. White
people have an origin story that does not include black people.
Inserting blacks into the white story requires whites to accept guilt
for things they did not do and shame for ancestors who made it possible
for any of us to have this discussion. It simply cannot work, so any
effort to make it work aggravates the natural racial friction in
America.

This does not mean a multiracial society is unworkable. The Russian
Federation is a multiracial society that generally works. For a thousand
years the dominant Russians have ruled lands with significant minority
groups, almost all on the fringes of their territory, while avoiding
many of the problems we see in the West. The most difficult period was
in the early years of communism when the egalitarian impulse tried to
eradicate the natural differences between people.

What you see in modern Russia is peaceful separation. The fringe areas
populated by various non-Russian ethnicities are left to have their own
culture and traditions, as long as they respect their place in Russian
society. These ethnic groups have an identity that is tangled up in
their relationship with Russians, but also separate and distinct from
that of the typical Russian. The modern Russian state encourages
intolerance of ethnic agitation among the Russians and the Russian
minorities.

Much of the rhetoric you will hear from Russian officials about their
ethnic minorities will sound like the nonsense we get from Western
rulers, but it has a different purpose, and it is received by different
ears. Russian multiculturalism assumes a dominant Russian culture that
includes a tolerance of minority cultures, as long as they never create
trouble for the majority. In other words, the Russians take some pride
in not having wiped out these minorities from their lands.

Applying this civilizational model to the West would mean a European
identity that assumes a natural dominance over European lands and the
people in those lands, regardless of their minority identity. This sort
of cultural chauvinism would allow blacks in America, for example, to
hang onto their story of victimhood only so far as it gives them pride
in who they are now. Antiwhite animosity would be suppressed officially
and unofficially through general intolerance.

Of course, this means applying different standards to different people
and that is where things run afoul of the liberal project. In order to
maintain peaceful separation, it requires different standards of conduct
and mutual exclusivity in large parts of the origin story of the
different racial identities. The story of black people would include
whites, but not in a negative way, but also exclude whites. The same
would hold for the story of the white population with regards to blacks,
Asians, Hispanics, and others.

There are obvious problems with the concept, not the least of which is
the narcotic of egalitarianism that flows through the veins of every
European. Before the West can appropriate a civilizational model to
managing their now multiracial societies, they must first break their
addiction to egalitarianism and natural rights. That will most likely
only come through a struggle to avoid extinction. Even so,
civilizationalism may be the only path forward for the West if it
chooses to survive.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="L2IhMd2SIGHg5XKwieYb3A==cb7qix7XEr9+QYnTZVQZYqZDOqtBaQ/ZaWw8quwWU4vtITUdQs3lGLokv2EZnaRsWM1"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="AXLPi1nUH4p4W6LGXz2RsA==cb7WBWxMr8dJoUnHURNXhHGudn664zwioDxOC5T1wbYjj2SFBiU0cSKwkpaOUZwG30o"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
