---
title: "Three-Legged Blob"
date: "2024-03-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31677"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31677"
---

The abrupt retirement of Victoria Nuland caught everyone by surprise as
she was just recently in Kiev promising to blow up the world. Naturally,
everyone assumes there must be a clever reason for her sudden departure.
The statement put out by Anthony Blinken reads like the statements that
come from ball teams when they fire a manager, which has led to
speculation that she was sacked. Alternatively, some suspect she is just
the first rat off the sinking ship that is project Ukraine.

As is always the case with regime-ology, the answer is going to be a
guess from a set of possibilities, rather than a clear answer. In this
case, Nuland is a senior member of the Kagan cult, by virtue of her
marriage to Robert Kagan. The entire foreign policy establishment is
controlled by neocons. Her now former boss, Anthony Blinken, is a
neocon, and her replacement is also a neocon. Whatever the reason for
her departure, it is not because the administration has turned on the
neocons.

The place to start is with the reality of American foreign policy, which
is not controlled by the political class but by three distinct parts of
permanent Washington. The most important part is the foreign policy
establishment, centered around the State Department, which is where the
Kagan cult is based. They control the foreign service and the thicket of
think tanks and quasi-academic outposts that recruit and develop those
who will serve in the foreign policy establishment.

Nuland’s career is a great example. She started out working for Strobe
Talbott in the Clinton administration then worked in the Bush
administration. She got bumped up in the Obama admi8nistration where she
ran Ukraine policy. She took a holiday during the Trump years, but came
back when Biden was installed. Notice that the changing of
administrations had no impact on her career. Note also that her
replacement is also a protege of Strobe Talbott.

Next you have the military industrial complex which is based in the
Pentagon and represents the interests of the military and the vast array
of companies that make weapons for and supply services to the military.
Their primary concern is to keep the flow of money coming from the
taxpayers. If war is good for business, they are in favor of war, but if
war is bad for business, they oppose war. Unlike the foreign policy
establishment, the MIC is mostly free of ideologues.

Finally, you have the intelligence community. Like all bureaucracies,
they have succumbed to Pournelle’s iron law of bureaucracy. Their
primary concern is with maintaining the flow of money and avoiding
political oversight. They are happy to help the Pentagon and the State
Department in their endeavors, but always do so in a way that serves the
narrow interests of the intel community. Like all intelligence services,
this is the most cynical and calculating of the three.

Project Ukraine has always been a State Department operation. The
Pentagon has gone along with it as it meant more money, but the events
of the last two years have strained this relationship. The flow of
weapons to Ukraine has drained the armories but has not resulted in new
cash for suppliers. Similarly, the spooks have supported the project
because a return of the Cold War is good for business. No one writes
novels about James Bond spying on MAGA people.

Until now, the three legs of the blob that controls American foreign
policy have been working together on Project Ukraine. They were happy to
tell the political class what they needed to hear, at home and abroad,
in order to get the political cheerleading they wanted for the project.
Six months ago, the Pentagon told the pols that the great
counter-offensive would smash the Russian lines. A year ago, the spooks
said the Russian were in political disarray.

The events of the last six months have put the lie to all of it. The
Russians have broken through Ukrainian lines and have the initiative
everywhere along the front. Ukrainian losses have spiked higher as
Russia gains control of the air space. We are now hearing Ukrainian
leaders talking about evacuation of major cities this summer, expecting
a major Russian offensive. Two years of grinding away at the Ukraine
army is showing results and the tide is now turning strongly in favor of
Russia.

The first sign of trouble was the stalled package of aid which House
Republicans refuse to pass that would hand sixty billion to the
Pentagon. This money would be laundered through Ukraine back to the
Pentagon and then the arms dealers, but the MIC’s favorite political
party has been stalling. The reason is the cupboards are bare, so the
MIC is not going to get much from this scheme. The only reason the
Republicans are stalling is they have the full support of the MIC on
this.

Last week, the CIA planted a <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/25/world/europe/cia-ukraine-intelligence-russia-war.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">long piece</a> in their favorite regime
outlet, the New York Times, in which they made clear that they have gone
well beyond what should have been expected with Project Ukraine. The
article detailed all of the great work they have done inside Ukraine
going back to 2014. Not long after, we get the leak of the German
military plotting a strike on Russia. The source of that leak is
probably based in Asia and could very well have ties to American intel.

That leaves the foreign policy establishment, which remains committed to
the project for ethnic and ideological reasons. The trouble is they are
now left holding the bag for a project that could turn into a massive
political crisis. For two years the politicians were told this will be a
huge win for the good guys. Instead, the bad guys are about to win, and
it is putting the political future of the collective West in jeopardy.
Losing the first global conflict of the 21st century will not go
unnoticed.

That brings us back to Nuland. Given that she is part of the Kagan cult,
which is a subculture within the greater neocon subculture, it seems
unlikely that she was fired for performance, even though her departure
is out of the blue. Further, she is a fanatic and fanatics see only that
which supports their fanaticism. It is unlikely that she looks at what
is happening and sees failure. At every failure in the project, she and
the rest of the neocons have found reasons to plow ahead.

Instead, what this suggests is that things are much worse for Project
Ukraine than anyone is letting on in public. Anticipating political
panic in Washington this summer, the neocons have decided to stash the
architect of the disaster in retirement, thus making it hard for the
Republicans to subpoena her. This makes it tough for the Republicans to
lay the blame at the feet of the White House. The new guy will be given
some latitude because the Republicans are this dumb.

On the other hand, there may be some unknown unknown at play. In
politics, people who suddenly retire do so for a cash grab or to avoid
scandal. The fact that someone was able to put that recording of German
officials in the hands of the Russians suggest there could be other
material of a similar nature. It is not as if Nuland has ever been
careful about talking about her schemes. It may be that she was caught
on surveillance again, perhaps when she was in Kiev last month.

There is always the possibility that she looked around at the politics
in Washington and decided that there was nothing more to gain. The
neocon war against their historic enemy is a long-term project. It is a
forever project and Ukraine was always just one chapter in the long
story of their struggle. They could have decided that all the juice was
squeezed from this lemon, and it was time to move on. She will return to
the hive and begin plotting the next project for a future
administration.

What all of this suggests is that behind-the-scenes things are far
bleaker for Project Ukraine than has been revealed to the public. The
game now is what we always see in managerialism and that is blame
shifting. The CIA fired the first shot with that Times article and now
the neocons are scurrying for cover. As always, the goal of this blame
game will be to leave the politicians holding the bag. Perhaps Biden’s
usefulness all along was to be the fall guy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="kKFDElJLNQmB2akilg1eZA==cb7ajuLxyj+/ndE2K7Fy5WiJhuQ1FAzsfmqKVF2IG45cGqCvMoamLwclWhVjijR5hmi"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="WzXUb0+Dh06APWcHxkQI9A==cb7Si09S0TjJ1QI7kZZiLl2p0zvawegFKMN5aTBNxDOx+rm/d12ak8ht+lfbccjpGbK"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
