---
title: "American Paradox"
date: "2024-06-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-06-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Alternative Media
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32218"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32218"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a short video on the best way to
dispose of body, a post about why you should believe conspiracy theories
and the Sunday podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the things about the modern age is that the public statements
from the centers of cultural production and the institutions are often
contradictory. The most obvious are the statements about “defending
democracy” which almost always come when an election goes against the
beautiful people. Their preferred candidate or party loses and all of a
sudden, the democratic result is declared a threat to democracy. It
happens so often now that people no longer bother to laugh at it.

There are these sorts of contradictions everywhere. For example, our
betters continue to use the language of rights to define society. Even
the most fevered social justice fanatic would not say the government
should assign you a mate. You get to decide who you date and who you
will marry. On the other hand, if a group of white people start a club
and say it is for European people, the full force of the managerial
state will come down on them for exercising their right to free
association.

You see this with the people we call the left. Every once in a while,
one of them will write a confession piece about how they have no black
friends. In fact, it is rare for a white progressive to have any
association with nonwhites. One of the amusing truths of this age is
that the whiter or blacker a congressional district, the more likely the
representative is to be a kook. Black districts select hilariously
insane black politicians, and all white districts get the hardest
thumping lefties.

The lived experience of white progressives is closer to the dreamed of
life of white nationalists, but the progressive sees no contradiction.
You see, they have a right to live where they like and among whom they
like. At the same time, they can wag their boney finger at you for your
whiteness, even if you live as a minority in a majority diverse part of
the country. You see, there is no hypocrisy as they are just exercising
their right to live where they choose to live.

What this gets to is a central paradox of progressivism. An individual
has rights, including the right to be free of discrimination. These are
contradictory assertions as the only way to prevent discrimination is to
infringe on individual rights. If one is to be free of discrimination
then it means forcing everyone else to act in ways they otherwise would
not act, as in not associating with someone. Your right to not associate
with a potential employee must yield to her right to not be oppressed.

Within the progressive morality is a paradox. An individual has rights
that must be respected, as in the dating example. Two individuals or
three individuals also have these same rights. At some point, there are
a number of individuals that flip from judging them as individuals to
judging them as a group. The person renting a room in their home can
discriminate as they please, but if that landlord is operating a rental
property, they must abide by the codes governing group behavior.

At what point does a collection of individuals become a group? If one
white person can exercise his right to free association, how many white
people constitutes a group and therefore they lose their right to free
association? This is the paradox. There is a number at which a
collection of white people loses their rights and fall under the
supervision of the moral authorities. The trouble is the number cannot
be defined, which is a form of Sorites paradox.

This is the paradox where you start with grains of rice. You start
placing grains on a table and they remain some number of grains until at
some point you have enough grains to declare it is a pile of rice.
Logically, there is a number where you go from a collection of grains to
a pile, but it is impossible to define the number. You can arbitrarily
decide it is one hundred grains or one million grains, but there is no
mathematical proof that locates the exact number.

We see the same thing with the progressive view of rights and
responsibilities. At some point, a collection of individuals becomes a
group and therefore they transition from the rules judging individuals
to the rules judging groups. A solitary white man has a right to
associate with whom he chooses but get enough white guys together and at
some point, they lose their individual rights in favor of group
responsibility. The number must exist, but no one bothers to define it.

This works in reverse, as well. Progressives have long argued that
whites as a group owe blacks, as a group, reparations for slavery.
California has been debating such a scheme for years. The trouble comes
when the white plumber is told he has to send money to the black sports
star. Collectively the morality of reparations is somewhat justifiable,
but once it is applied individually it becomes an abomination. In theory
there lies a middle ground, but no one can define it.

The source of this paradox is the fact that the progressive moral
framework starts with the group and works backward. Since the Greeks,
people have worked the problem in reverse by starting with the rights
and obligations of the individual. This meant carving out a well-defined
space where the individual is free to act as he sees fit. In old Norse,
for example, there was a word for private habits and a word for public
habits because it was understood there was a clear line between the two.

In fact, an individual’s obligations to the group were all within the
context of what is best for the group, which was always tied to group
survival. There was no collective moral purpose, only a collective
practical purpose. Socrates did not flee Athens because it would bring
shame to his family or to Athens. He remained and faced his punishment
because it was good for Socrates the individual. He upheld Athenian law,
even if it meant death, because it was his duty to the survival of the
whole.

For a long time, since before Gettysburg, progressives have determined
that there is a moral purpose to America as a collective entity.
Therefore, everyone as an American has an individual duty to further
that collective moral purpose. Since the good of the many must outweigh
the good of the individual, the moral purpose of society must inevitably
chip away at individual rights. Thus, this paradox we see with regards
to rights slowly gives way to collective morality.

In a way, the hyper-moralization of mass culture and the transformation
of the state into an explicitly moral structure, is an effort to resolve
the contradiction. If the point of America is to impose a new moral
order on the world, then it must follow that the point of being an
American is to dedicate your life to that cause. Individual rights,
which imply choice, must fall away in favor of universal moral duties.
In this new paradigm, the Bill of Rights becomes the bill of moral
duties.

Theocracies have a poor history primarily because men are not angels.
This means the moral authorities must either accept something less than
the ideal outcome or exhaust themselves making the people comply. This
is why our mass culture sounds like a deranged church choir. The ruling
class cares far more about you having only the right thoughts in your
head than making sure Boeing builds safe planes. At some point,
practical necessity requires the people to overthrow the priests.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Odsa+lltCjAOePIFQyT7ZQ==cb7ws1FMnGkP5wGDR9Gur2LypnmBCB09jnFop0kxuaYGSbjBnijHBGE22SuPjEToLJ7"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="MKnmVjfE2yi/zUnWC7NDeA==cb7yEAOtSq1qzNfZQqFcfsnddtmrCaHWoYGxtbfbYOaKCUnMyZ7jNZ3Kwj8EpczASNE"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
