---
title: "The Chevron Case"
date: "2024-07-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-07-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
  - The Law
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32264"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32264"
---

Imagine if when the Supreme Court decided Brown v. Board of Education of
Topeka, they drew a sharp line between public and private
discrimination. Maybe in Katzenbach v. McClung they drew a bright line
around the Commerce Clause and ruled that as long as you were not
conducting business across state lines, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 did
not apply to your business. In other words, what if the court said that
the principles of discrimination and inclusion apply only to the
government?

The answer is we would have a vastly different world. Just consider the
Katzenbach case in which the court claimed that the restaurant in
question was not doing business across state lines, but it was possible
that it could one day buy product from a vendor in another state, so the
Commerce Clause applied. If the court had ruled rationally, we would now
have a world where private discrimination was still legal, just as long
as you did it locally, not nationally.

Of course, if the court had drawn the line between private
discrimination and public discrimination, most of our race troubles
never would have manifested, because normal life would not contradict
official morality. A colorblind state is well within the spirit and
sensibility of the American people. The liberty to associate or
disassociate with whom you choose, for any reason you choose, is also
consistent with the history and sensibilities of the people.

That is not what happened, and we have suffered a half century of
demographic collapse as a result of the court imposing a new moral
framework. It is a good example of how even small changes in the law can
lead to a revolution in how people interact with each other and the
government. We may be seeing another revolution brewing with the most
recent court rulings in Loper Bright Enterprises v. Raimondo and Corner
Post, Inc. v. Board of Governors.

The Loper decision ends what has been called the “Chevron deference”
which is the longstanding principle where the courts defer to federal
agencies with regards to regulations, interpretation of regulations and
enforcement of regulations. Put simply, if a business or industry did
not like a federal regulation, they had to convince the regulators to
change it or get help from Congress. The courts would defer to the
alleged experts in the administrative state.

What the Supreme Court has done in these two cases is continue to
dismantle the logic that animated the Chevron deference and much of
administrative law. They are going about it in two ways. One is the
Court is saying that these agencies only have powers explicitly granted
to them by Congress. Second, companies and industries can now go into
the courts for redress. They can challenge the expertise of the
regulators and the process used by the agencies to make policy.

This may sound arcane and boring, but keep in mind that most of the
federal rules that directly impact your life are not passed by Congress.
In fact, no one in Congress can tell you how most of the rules come into
existence. The reason for that is the federal agencies craft the rules
that regulate every nook and cranny of life. Until now, they did so
without having to answer to anyone. Technically, Congress oversees these
agencies, but Congress is full of simpletons.

What the Court seems to imagine is a new paradigm. If the Gaia
worshippers, for example, want to ban gas stoves, they will need to get
enough votes in Congress for a ban on gas stoves. Currently, they just
have to cajole or bribe people in the administrative state and convince
industry that they can profit from the new shenanigans in order to ban
your gas stove. You, the citizen, have nowhere to turn to get your gas
stove back.

There are now over 200,000 pages in the Code of Federal Regulations and
few people have the slightest idea what they mean. This is why large
companies have lawyers who interface with the agencies overseeing their
industry. It is why small and midsized companies have trade groups. It
is why there is a large army of lawyers whose specialty is
administrative law. This is because the leviathan, which is the
administrative state, has tentacles reaching into your most private
matters.

What made this all possible was the habit of Congress, going back to
FDR, to grant agencies in the executive branch broad powers to make
laws, interpret those laws and enforce those laws. The way they did this
is to give an agency a mission and then a budget to set off on that
mission, which was used to lobby Congress for more money to expand the
scope of the mission and underwrite various schemes that allegedly were
in pursuit of their mission.

The direction of the Court is to ignore the vague powers granted by
Congress and focus only on the specific powers granted by Congress. If
Congress passes the Puppies and Rainbows bill that authorizes the
Department of Education to do what they can to promote puppies and
rainbows, the Court will not intervene. Once the DoE makes a rule
requiring puppies and rainbows in the schools, then a school system can
go to court arguing that the DoE was never granted this power.

There is a long road to go and many more court cases to define this new
paradigm, but the end of that road is an administrative state that is
limited by the specific powers granted to it and one that must defend
its rules in court when challenged. For the same reason our coins have
ridges, bills coming out of Congress will have to come with specifics,
rather than pages of esoteric language designed to give the
administrative state unlimited power to craft new rules.

In the short term, it means that every comma in those 200,000 pages of
Federal regulations is now open to challenge in the courts. Inevitably,
some popular rules will be struck down and that means Congress will be
forced to pass actual laws reestablishing those popular rules. On the
other hand, it also means there is a chance to get rid of odious rules
that serve narrow interests. Getting a light bulb ban through Congress,
for example, never would have happened.

It is not all puppies and rainbows. Rich people have been bribing
Congress for generations and America presently has the worst class of
rich people since the French Revolution, so it means lots of terrible
laws from Congress. The difference is that this stuff will be out in the
open where now it is in the shadows, allowing both Congress and its
wealthy owners to play dumb and pretend to be something other than
odious carbuncles strip-mining the middle-class.

Civil rights looked like a small change in private behavior in pursuit
of a greater good, but it led to the demographic madness of the present.
These rulings in pursuit of reducing the managerial state to mere
bureaucracy may not look like much, but they threaten the moral
authority of managerialism. Rule by experts no longer make sense when
experts can be challenged. This may one day give people room to salvage
whatever is left of the American experiment.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="bstTEIdy1kfMjbRKa3w/pw==cb74FsT7z5lDpQ9mD3yyrOMe+5o5xao6skZRXKCVF9x8ktB5o55W2d9chaBLiBVxNnZ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="P64l2FmGTfyl1rj08x1jWw==cb7NbwOPVrZjFRG7o6Aq0OqS3UrGvDJCKVbL+FTDys0HcwKfhd5xp5EDk5QwTv/TFAo"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
