---
title: "After Left And Right"
date: "2024-04-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31796"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31796"
---

**Note \#1:** Behind the green door is a post about Gen-Z being raised
on the internet and a post about failing up in managerialism. The Sunday
podcast was cancelled due to Easter and nothing happening. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note \#2:** For those he need to hear my voice as much as possible,
there is my appearance on the <a
href="https://rumble.com/v4loglz-killstream-tuesday-live-diddy-fallout-more-3pmish-est.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Killstream</a> last week. I also recorded
a <a href="https://youtu.be/Ixj2DiYZgdk?si=u_sIqnW4MxnPmP2Q"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">show</a> with a young YouTuber who asked
some interesting questions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note \#3:** Some may have noticed that I did some experimenting with
the comment system over the weekend. It was not without its bugs, so we
are back to the basic setup for now. From time to time you may see
things like this as I experiment with ideas for the new site that is in
the works.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Over the last decade, “conservatism” in America has declined
reputationally largely due to the failures and embarrassments of
professional conservatism. Depending upon your disposition, the Bush
years either sent the conservative movement over a cliff or exposed it
for being nothing more than a financial hustle. There are other views of
the failure of professional conservatism and all of them are right in
their own way, but there is no denying that the Buckley project has
failed.

As a result, the last decade has seen various efforts to create a “new
right” to replace the Buckley project. Remnants of the alt-right went so
far as to call themselves the “new right” for a while, but they had
nothing to offer but new slogans. The Claremont collective has fumbled
about trying to create a new conservatism, piggybacking on the populism
of Donald Trump. Yoram Hazony has tried to preach a new form of
nationalism to take the place of conservatism.

So far none of these efforts has made much progress, outside of creating
some interesting debates at times. Most recently Claremont published a
long
[essay](https://claremontreviewofbooks.com/national-conservatism-vs-american-conservatism/)
on its main site attacking the contradictions within Hazony’s
nationalism. On their *American Mind* site they posted a
[response](https://americanmind.org/features/national-conservatism-vs-american-conservatism/two-adams-two-foundings/)
from David Goldman, formerly known as Spengler in the Asia Times, coming
to the partial defense of nationalism. Less rigorous minds have also
[waded](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/polemics-exchanges/polemics-exchanges-september-2023/)
into the topic with echolalic babbling.

One problem that all attempts to fashion a new right face is something
Kesler touched on in his essay about Hazony’s nationalism. America is
and always has been a multicultural country. Even putting aside the race
issue, the thirteen colonies that came together to form the United
States were composed of people with unique cultures and histories, which
were often at odds with the other states. These differences pre-dated
the colonies themselves, coming over from the Old World.

This presents an obvious problem for nationalism as by definition it
assumes a common people with common ancestors. Nationalism is exclusive
to a particular people, which cannot work when the people are a mixed
bag of various people from different parts of the world with different
histories. The story of the Tidewater is different from the story of the
Massachusetts Bay Colony. The Framers understood this which is why they
settled on a federal system of government.

As Samuel Goldman explained in his excellent little
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Nationalism-Radical-Conservatisms-Samuel-Goldman/dp/0812251644),
*After Nationalism*, what has held America together since the beginning
is a combination of the covenant, the crucible and the creed. The
covenant being a mission to build the city on the hill, the crucible
being the shared struggle that binds our various people together and the
creed is the statement of shared principles. To one degree or another,
these concepts still turn up in our political rhetoric.

Early in his book, Goldman quotes the historian Wilfred McClay, who
wrote, “Ties of blood, religion, and soil are not sufficient to hold us
together as Americans, and they never have been. We are forever in the
business of making a workable unity out of our unruly plurality.” This
is the problem with nationalism as a defining force in America, but it
also presents a problem for anything calling itself conservatism. Which
is why the covenant, the crucible and the creed have shaped
conservatism.

Like nationalism, conservatism is strongly tied to the past. You cannot
have nationalism without a shared history or at least an overlapping
history. Different parts of Germany may have unique pasts, but they
share enough of a common past to feel a part of the greater concept of
German. Similarly, conservatism seeks to preserve social order by
maintaining historical continuity. Conservatives do not oppose change,
but instead seek to contain new ideas within the framework of the past.

Central to conservatism is the notion that some things are too important
to be put up to the scrutiny of reason. Questioning a tradition, for
example, should be resisted even if the logic of tradition is no longer
obvious. Conservatives assume that the shared habits of a people exist
for a reason. Altering or abandoning the old ways risks unknown and
unwelcome consequences, so change must be gradual and cautious.
Traditions are the result of trial and error over many generations.

The specter that haunts conservatism, however, is *who* decides that
certain things are not to be questioned? Traditions and customs do not
fall out of the sky onto people, but are the product of people, a
*specific* people. The reason they are traditions is they have been
handed down to you by your ancestors. They are part of your cultural
inheritance that comes from those with whom you share blood. Again, this
is something the Framers understood as they debated the new
Constitution.

What this means is American conservatism must limit itself to defending
the political order as defined by the Constitution. Since that order
allows for unlimited changes to the document itself, not to mention
unlimited interpretation of the plain text, conservatism is committed to
defending a moving target. It is why American conservatism has always
been, as Robert Lewis Dabney observed a century ago, “the shadow that
follows Radicalism as it moves forward towards perdition.”

There is another problem for conservatism in America. The thing they
wish to defend, even if they dismiss the centuries of innovation since
its creation, is itself the product of the radical idea of the
intentional society. The Framers started from the assumption that they
could create the society they wanted because society is, as John Locke
understood, the result of human labor and intention. Maker’s knowledge
lets man create a society as he would make anything else.

If it is perfectly moral and possible to create a nation out of the
wilderness, then it is perfectly moral and possible to recreate that
nation, even create a new nation from the old, to meet the demands of
the present. In other words, American conservatism must defend that
which it claims to oppose, because what it defends is the radical idea
that we can make our society into anything we choose. America is, after
all, a radical experiment in self-government.

There is a way out of this that some conservatives proposed. Pat
Buchanan, for example, argued that the Constitution was the result of
British people living in the New World for two centuries. The final
organizing document by the Framers was simply the only option possible
for the American people. Defending the Constitution is a defense of the
people and history behind it, not whatever abstract political theories
some people claim as the inspiration for the Constitution.

That may be true, but it runs into that same old problem. The people who
created that world and the political order that sprang from it are long
gone, along with their sense of history and identity. That America was
not just European. It was almost exclusively British and Protestant.
America will soon be majority-minority and the founding stock is down to
ten percent of the population. Defending something that no longer exists
is no more possible than defending a moving target.

All of this brings us to why there will not be a “new right” that
emerges from the wreckage of professional conservatism. There never was
a right in America, at least not since the North conquered the South.
Once the last bits of hierarchy were washed from the continent in the
blood of the Confederacy, conservatism ceased to be a thing that could
take root in the New World. America is and continues to be a radical
experiment, a perpetual revolution seeking to reach the end of history.

This is not all bad news. Conservatism in America has always been a
reaction to the peculiar ideology of progressivism which emerged in the
19th century. Conservatism sought to create an alternative ideology as
an antidote to progressivism. The failure of conservatism may lead to a
greater understanding that the antidote to ideology is not ideology but
the anathematization of ideology. In its place there may grow a
chemotherapy to the cancer of ideology.

This could be helped by the fact that we seem to be reaching the end of
the ideological age, as what we call liberal democracy, but is the
mature version of American progressivism, reaches its end. The last
ideological states are all in a crisis, which has put the ideology in
crisis. Just as failure anathematized the other great ideologies, the
failure of Western liberalism may do the same for progressivism, perhaps
opening the way to an organic organizing ethos.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="tyIgKqpqU5U7kq2zyBFlMg==cb7dfMdOYZiNSdKHJH/CgloFVrALiDasf42rd/KD8DRcFtsffQr2rgCRAb6+qYFsQzY"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Fx1BCh+Nx/P1aHvXfBQCtg==cb7YmILprc+gsw7Dp2DsOLKYu05lacYNHtsqIJPZT9VrpPQJ3woRlBdUqheDPD0NKD9"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
