---
title: "WW3 Watch"
date: "2024-05-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-05-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31971"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31971"
---

The first week of May has brought fresh worries that the war in Ukraine
will lead to the third and final world war. On Twitter, “WW3” has been
trending on and off as various rumors hit the system. Currently, the
driver is statements from Russia that any attacks on Russia by Western
troops operating in Ukraine will be viewed as an attack by that country
on Russia, which means war. Russia also announced that she will be
testing tactical nuclear weapons to underscore the point.

To understand what is happening we have to go back to the big funding
bill passed by Congress at the end of April. The political class in
Europe and the United States came away thinking this would turn the
tide, but soon learned that the bill was about paying off creditors, not
funding new weapons. There are no new weapons to send, at least not
until after the November elections. The $60 billion was about <a
href="https://www.wsj.com/finance/ukraine-debt-payments-russia-war-1c0c301e"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">paying</a> the MIC and the bankers for
money invested in Project Ukraine.

Of course, there are events on the battlefield. The Russians have broken
through the center of Ukrainian defenses in a major way. All along the
line of contact the Ukrainians are on the backfoot, but in the center
they are at risk of collapse. The Russians managed to do this without
committing large numbers of troops. It is assumed they will now commit
to exploiting this gap in the Ukrainian lines with the half million men
they have in reserve, waiting for better weather.

In light of these two factors, the Europeans have been making noises
about introducing troops into Ukraine. The truth is, NATO has had people
in Ukraine for ten years and ramped up their presence at the start of
the war. These have been contractors or government employees operating
as contractors. Some contractors just happen to employ former soldiers
of NATO countries. Even so, it is enough of a fig leaf for the Russians
to pretend they are not NATO soldiers.

Then there is the rumor that the French Foreign Legion was dispatched to
Ukraine and possibly hit by Russian missiles. Regime media was <a
href="https://apnews.com/article/fact-check-french-troops-russia-ukraine-deployed-994039088319"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">dispatched</a> to deny this claim, which
means it is most certainly true. While technically not French troops, it
is unclear if the Russians will buy it. They <a
href="https://www.aa.com.tr/en/europe/russia-summons-british-french-ambassadors-following-remarks-on-ukraine/3211548"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">summoned</a> the French and British
ambassadors to repeat what has been said in the past, which is any
attacks on Russia by troops from these countries will result in
retaliation on these countries.

The final piece of the puzzle is Victory Day. This is when the Russian
people celebrate their victory over the Nazis in the Great Patriotic
War. Rumors have been swirling that Ukraine, with help from Britain and
France, will launch attacks on Crimea as a way to embarrass Putin this
week. For a week, NATO surveillance drones have been in the area and
Ukraine has been sending drones to map Russian radar. The rumor is this
is in preparation for a massive attack on the Kerch bridge.

The fact is the only way the Ukrainians can attack this bridge is by
using NATO missiles like the British Storm Shadow or French Scalp. These
would have to be launched in large numbers along with other missiles and
drones. The Ukrainians lack the expertise to operate these weapons, so
it means they will be operated by British and French personnel, either
officially or unofficially. The Russians know this, as they recorded the
Germans discussing this over the winter.

Put all of this together and you have a scenario in which NATO is
growing desperate over what is happening on the battlefield and Russia
is losing patience with these pipsqueak countries doing the bidding of
the neocons in Washington. From the perspective of Russia, the only
reason NATO is not coming to the table with a deal is they just want to
see as many Russians die as possible or they are plotting an invasion
after the November elections.

Despite the growing desperation in Europe, there remains this weird
delusion about Russia that is at the root of these escalations. Since
the start of the war, it has been assumed that at some point the
Russians will blink. For three years NATO has upped the ante in terms of
weapons and rhetoric, always assuming that this new wonder weapon or new
threat will cause the Russians to back down. This never happens, but the
belief remains unshakable.

The question is what happens when the Ukraine army begins to collapse?
The signs are everywhere right now. Elite units are refusing to fight.
There have been mass surrenders of newly deployed conscript units. The
ideological units now spend their time making stylish videos, rather
than fighting. The Russians are preparing for major summer offensives,
which may cause the line of defense to collapse. This would leave the
Ukraine army broken into pieces.

When the unthinkable begins to be reality, what will happen to that
unshakable confidence that all it takes is one more escalation? Can the
West accept defeat in Ukraine, or will they have no choice but to go
bigger? The evidence to this point suggests they will think they have no
choice but to go bigger, maybe declaring a no fly zone over Western
Ukraine or introducing troops to guard the Dnieper. Maybe they take
control of Odessa and dare the Russians to attack.

One glimmer of hope for those who do not want to see the world end in
nuclear annihilation is Chinese ruler Xi Jinping Ping <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2024/05/06/xi-china-france-macron-hungary-serbia/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">visiting</a> Europe. His first stop was
France to flatter the megalomaniacal Macron. The point of Xi’s trip is
to convince the Europeans that their interests lie in finding a
settlement with Russia. Making Macron the first visit suggests the
Chinese know he is a simpleton who is easily flattered, but also the
driving force for escalation in Ukraine.

What the Chinese could offer the Europeans is a way out of the trap they
have built for themselves with the Russians. They can get to pretend to
be important figures by cutting a deal with China to end the war in
Ukraine. Of course, this would mean breaking with Washington, so it is a
long shot. Maybe it is enough to get Macron to retreat on the escalatory
rhetoric. That could be enough to prevent another round of escalation
and avert the end of the world.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="aUWZdI6JPeEachpnW3v03Q==cb7uU5IHQ1upG8QH2fSWC0xlfjxf3xhb9UlMlLITCQQn9wR2kHHpvyiGPwRGvARZZd8"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="6rziXa+Bit63/ekC4vwqww==cb7sOBqEABWvJ0TbqGE7If93ahKy9RUQwA6mJ31IKZCCQ+NO9hsMIYWB7yqUEFFzKyG"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
