---
title: "Ivy Day Thoughts"
date: "2024-11-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-11-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32977"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32977"
---

If you were to ask an American to name a corrupt country, he would most
likely pick one from what we used to call the third world. To a great
degree, this is how we now define the term “third world”. It simply
means corrupt. First world countries have transparency and the rule of
law, while third world countries are opaque, and the rules are not
always clear to the citizens of those countries. These days it is not
unusual to hear Russia or China called third world, for example.

This is one of those legacy ideas from the 20th century that evolved
with the times rather than following the Cold War into the history
books. As a result, our rulers tend not to think much about the
corruption in American society. It is just assumed, as it was in the
Cold War, that Western countries are largely free of corruption, mostly
due to the honesty of Americans, while the rest of the world is riddled
with corruption. It is a form of the old good guy – bad guy view of the
world.

The thing is you can quite easily make the case that America is one of
the most corrupt countries in the world now. Today is election day and
most Americans assume the vote counts will be corrupted with fake votes
generated by the people who support things like mail in voting, drop
boxes and ballot harvesting. In popular government, voting is the key to
its integrity, but in the world’s greatest democracy, most people assume
the vote is as corrupt as anything that happens in the third world.

The countries that holds elections, even the ones we still call third
world, require voters to cast their vote in person and show that they
are a citizen. The burden of proof is on the voter to show they are
entitled to vote. In America, this basic safeguard has been corrupted
through many schemes like mail-in voting, drop boxes and bans on voters
showing their government identification. Anyone who questions the
integrity of the vote must prove their case all the way to the Supreme
Court.

Of course, the reason for that is the court system is now stuffed with
judges who make up the rules based on their ideological whims. A judge
in Virginia tried to stop the state government from purging foreigners
from the voter rolls. The state had to appeal all the way to the Supreme
Court. It was not a unanimous decision in their favor, because the three
progressive fanatics sided with the foreigners. Courtrooms are now
lotteries due to ideology, which is the definition of corruption.

It is fair to say that two pillars of “good government” in the liberal
sense of the concept are free and fair elections and the rule of law. In
present day America, we have thoroughly corrupt elections, and the rule
of law exists only for the rich and those lucky enough to get a judge
who is not driven mad with ideology. If what we see in present day
America was happening in a South American country, the media reports
would make corruption a center piece of their coverage.

That brings up a third part of the good government concept, a free
press. The media in America is entirely controlled by the ruling class.
Access journalism has been the norm for decades now. On top of that the
media is staffed by people who are animated by ideological fervor. The
result is a mass media that is so thoroughly dishonest it would have
made the Bolsheviks wince. If you want to know what is not happening in
the world, trust American media.

It is not that they are mere propagandists. The American media actively
conspires with shadowy figures to deceive the public. The last decade
should probably be called the age of media hoaxes. Many of them are so
outlandish that it suggests we are living in a computer simulation run
by drug takers. The mass media spent years covering a claim that
Vladimir Putin used mind control to elect Trump in 2016. If Trump wins
today, it will be more years of this insane conspiracy theory.

It is not just soft corruption, the stuff driven by ideological fervor,
that has become normalized in America. Good old-fashioned bribery is the
norm now. Look at the elected leaders of the two parties and what you
see is they entered politics penniless and will exit as
multi-millionaires. The reason for this is the elected officials who
play ball get insider access to sure thing investments. The reason they
are a sure thing is those same elected officials make sure of it.

In fact, it is fair to say that the American economy as a whole is as
corrupt as the post-Soviet Russian economy controlled by oligarchs.
Silicon Valley has been abusing the basic rights of American for years,
with the full support of the state. The banking industry is nothing more
than an industrial scale skimming operation. We used to put gangsters in
jail for doing this with casinos. Now the gangsters have the state try
to put you in jail if you question the ethics of our economic model.

It is hard to find anything in America that is on the level. Even benign
stuff like social science data is corrupt. The government had to admit
this year that they had been faking employment numbers. The FBI finally
confessed that they had been faking crime figures, even the murder
stats. Homicide numbers used to be the gold standard of crime data
because it was assumed you could not fake them. Turns out in highly
corrupt societies, you can fake anything.

After the Soviet Union collapsed, it was assumed it would take a few
generations for the culture of distrust to subside. It did not take
quite that long, but thirty years on and social trust remains low in
modern Russia. It is rising quickly, but people still remember when you
could not trust anything from the state or its supporters. Trust is one
of those things that is easily squandered, but difficult to establish.
Russia may never be a high trust society due its history.

This may be the fate of America. The average American, especially older
Americans, still trust the system, even if they no longer trust the
people running it. At some point, practical necessity forces people to
stop thinking this way. You see this in the younger generations who are
comfortable in a scamocracy. Add in demographic replacement and the
ingredients are all in place for America to descend into the depths of
kleptocracy and corruption associated with low-trust societies.

This is not to say we have decades more of this until the break.
Historical analogies are not about stuffing the present into our model
of the past. The point is to use a model of the past to gain insights
into the present. In this case, the end was near for the Soviets when no
one, not even government officials believed the official lies. By the
1970’s cynicism was the defining feature of the culture. The state lied,
the people pretended to believe the lie and the state pretended the lie
worked.

We may be reaching such a point. Today’s election is about a man who has
been vilified, physically attacked and prosecuted by the state and their
media agents for close to a decade. It is not about Harris. She is
simply the face of a regime that people increasingly find odious and
corrupt. Trump may be our Boris Yeltsin, a flawed but essential figure
to facilitate the transition from the low-trust ideological regime of
the past into something human and honest.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="FIxm7EaILnsCCjFm8z6LcQ==cb7cYkPNp/g/Py4ABmVS6EuJ14TvM5lxkOJygXdhm7Bm8HpEYMWEBR77747ZdakFHLn"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="RjJZig0iyiGCffZQk0nFbw==cb7UBc6CfOeBn8JiYlCBxDdBDTT0JVkdBHTZyYVO3UboCEEvSnYB6hqGgBc/c53IQnL"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
