---
title: "The Lincoln Exception"
date: "2024-09-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32768"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32768"
---

**Note \#1:** Behind the green door I have a post about why you should
never trust anything in the visual media, a post about the strangely
large amounts of money spent on bad movies and television and the Sunday
podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note \#2:** Some of our folks could use your help in the aftermath of
the hurricane that hit parts of Appalachia. Here is a <a
href="https://www.gofundme.com/f/help-paige-cody-after-devastating-flood?attribution_id=sl:f7c121b5-b88a-4680-bacf-b67b109ee842"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">GoFundMe</a> for a family that Pete
Quinones knows who lost everything in the flood. Give what you can and
post up others so people can pitch in to help our folks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The reason the small groups of humans in the hunter-gatherer phase of
human evolution started working together was primarily safety. Two
groups cooperating could not only better defend themselves from other
groups, but they could defend the assets they shared from outsiders.
That water source or the good hunting ground could not only be exploited
through cooperation, but it could be defended and eventually cultivated
by kin groups cooperating with one another.

We do not know why kin groups started to cooperate exactly, the above is
logical speculation, but we do know that humans eventually settled down
and eventually, the point of their organization was to guard their
property. Whether it was to guard their hunting grounds or more easily
guard the stuff they created with their labor, the point of organization
was to protect the people and their stuff. From this stage forward, the
point of human organization became property.

When exactly the concept of private property came into existence is
impossible to know, but at some point, humans began to recognize
ownership. Logically it started with what we now call personal property,
the things that come from labor. Grog’s hunting kit was Grog’s hunting
kit, and he had a right to defend it or give it away. Similarly, this
land was the land of Grog’s people, and they defended it. Other groups
made similar claims and before long their relations were based on
respecting this.

Most likely, the concept of private ownership of land evolved from the
ownership of personal goods, but we are left to guess. What we know is
that as far back as we have records, human societies had sorted the
difference between public ownership of land and private ownership of
land. The Greeks and the Romans, for example, had laws governing private
property. Plato was famously opposed to private property, while
Aristotle was strongly in supported of it.

After the collapse of the Western Roman Empire, private property became
the foundation for what would come next in Europe. Large landowners
organized to defend their lands and eventually the feudal system
evolved. Feudalism was the set of reciprocal relations between the
warrior elite, who also happened to be the class who owned all of the
land. It was the ownership of land that determined the new ruling elite
that would eventually rule Europe.

The model of ownership in the medieval period was one where the king or
prince owned the land but granted rights to it. Technically, all of the
land in the kingdom was the property of the king, but most of it was
controlled by lower members of the aristocratic order and the church.
The king was, in effect, the most important landowner among the
land-owning class. Property was the basis for relations among the ruling
class and between the ruling class and the people over whom they ruled.

Property in the American sense of it has always been tied to labor. The
Framers were not only influenced by Locke on this matter, but also by
their society that was created by the individual labor of the people.
Their reality was based on the observation that you own you and
therefore you own your labor, which means by default you own the produce
of your labor. In fact, the American concept of rights originates from
this Lockean idea of self-ownership.

This is why in the fullness of time Lincoln’s reckless disregard for
property rights will be viewed the same as we view Sulla’s march on
Rome. It is the abrogation of a central principle that made the
republican order unstable. If there is no cost to breaking the most
important rules, the future tyrant is born. There is a straight line
from Sulla to Caesar crossing the Rubicon and there is a straight line
from the Emancipation Proclamation to the wholesale abrogation of our
rights today.

We see this with the controversy over publishing the private information
of J.D. Vance that was stolen from the Trump campaign. The FBI says it
was Iran that stole it, which means it was not Iran that stole it. There
is little doubt that the FBI has moles in the Trump campaign, stealing
everything they find. It is also certainly the case that the secret
police have gained access to their computers. The FBI no doubt handed
this to the usual degenerates to publish online.

The “free speech” people <a
href="https://read.substack.com/p/journalists-must-be-free-to-publish"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">argue</a> that this is an essential role
of journalism, so they should be free to publish it. In other words,
there is a journalist exception to the most fundamental right of
property. That is what they never want you to notice. The people
trafficking in this sort of material are trafficking in stolen goods.
The information in that dossier is the property of J.D. Vance. In good
faith he permitted the Trump campaign to use it to evaluate his fitness
for the running mate slot.

What “journalists” are claiming is a special right to steal your
property and not only use it to profit themselves, but to harm you with
it. Imagine you lend your car to a friend and Uber then steals it and
uses it to deliver food. Then they claim Uber is an essential part of
the economy, so they have a right to your car. You should have been more
careful about who you let use it. In fact, because they gave your car to
a black guy, you are a racist for wanting your car back.

What we have now is the Lincoln exception to property rights. If people
with power can produce a moral cause to justify to themselves the
abrogation of your property rights, then for the good of our democracy
they not only can take your property, but they also have a duty to do
it. We have gone from the government stealing the property of slave
owners to save the Union, to the government granting powerful interests
the right to root around in your private affairs and publish the
results.

In fact, privacy has now become a form of sumptuary law. If you are in
favor with the powerful, you do not have to worry about free speech
advocates rummaging through your garbage looking for dirt. Notice how
so-called journalists are always the last to know about important
things. On the other hand, if you are out of favor with powerful people,
then you are subjected to the synopticon. The eyes of the regime pierce
every aspect of your life, searching for what they can use to ruin you.

In the end, the reason America is increasingly tyrannical is the logic
that flows the Lincoln exception to property rights. Once the principle
was invented that you are no longer constrained by the ancient rights of
property, if you can establish the moral high ground, the relationship
between the American people and their government shifted from one of
rights based in property to one of privileges based on whatever spurious
moral claims are popular with the ruling class at the time.

This is how we got things like the Sullivan doctrine and the Brown
standard from the Supreme Court. Once the standard against which
everything is measured is the self-righteous indignation of the people
in charge, it is no longer possible to have rights or the rule of law.
In fact, you can no longer claim to own you, as “our democracy” might
require the sacrifice of you, whether you like it or not. The moral
tyrants get to decide these things and you have no choice in the matter.

Where this is heading is to a pre-modern concept of society. Instead of
private property being the default and communal property as the
necessary exception, we are heading to a world of communal property as
the default. Everything about you is assumed to be property held in
common. The exceptions are those things deemed necessary to keep society
functioning. The goal is to narrow the exceptions until we reach some
sort of communal singularity in which the individual is obliterated.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="4EDZtt1CjDAwqgMkuiARcA==cb7KjAnygoVYCx8JLITUz4t2yrnLPcDCl66aBflDgW/00UlYIa4xB9NgMCekSk1stG6"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="VfXMRHSzZ+yfa4qVY+bQOw==cb7bvivosW5982vqiNr0/y6+EKhNJVkOPSZndfIFpcExTBNkXYE5JMb6jP1rVbH8CRR"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
