---
title: "Who Does The Measuring"
date: "2024-01-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31497"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31497"
---

In the 1980 campaign, Reagan would regularly say that a recession is
when your neighbor loses his job. A depression is when you lose your
job. It was a pithy line that got at something that was always missed by
the politicians at the time. That is, the economy is not the same for
everyone. You can have a good economy but there will be people who are
not doing so good. The reverse is also true. Even in the Great
Depression, there were people doing fabulously well.

That is the problem facing the political class this year. According to
their court wizards, the economy is <a
href="https://www.cnbc.com/2024/01/25/gdp-q4-2023-the-us-economy-grew-at-a-3point3percent-pace-in-the-fourth-quarter.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">growing</a> at a blistering pace. The
fourth quarter of last year saw growth at over three percent and
inflation falling down to two percent for what the wizards call personal
items, while overall inflation was under two percent. The definition of
“personal items” is one of those things that makes sense to the people
doing the counting, but not to anyone who is doing the actual spending

Does it feel like the economy is growing at a blistering pace? Most
people do not think the economy is great. In fact, most people think we
are in difficult economic times, despite relatively high employment.
This was one of the top reasons people voted for Trump in Iowa and New
Hampshire. Under Trump, people perceived the economy as strong while
under Biden it seems to be weak. The main reason is <a
href="https://www.cnbc.com/2023/10/07/job-growth-surges-but-americans-still-think-the-economy-stinks.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">inflation</a>. Every trip to the store
sees prices higher than the last trip.

For the sake of comparison, the last time Americans experienced
significant retail inflation was in the 1970’s. The court wizards back
then used different rulers for measuring things like inflation, but
everyone agrees retail inflation was higher than what we have
experienced the last few years. The economy also grew at a faster rate
most years during this time. The recession of 1974 was followed annual
growth of near five percent the following years.

Five percent growth in 1976 did not keep Gerald Ford from losing to
Jimmy Carter and it did not keep Reagan from beating Carter in 1980. The
reason is GDP is not a great way to measure the economy. The formula for
calculating GDP is Consumption + Government Spending + Investment + Net
Exports​. If inflation is roaring, consumption and government spending
will also be roaring. You can have a growing GDP while people are seeing
their budgets ravaged by inflation.

Of course, we live in the managerial age and managers can always be
counted on to do one thing very well and that is lie about what they are
doing. In the case of the economy, the court wizards keep tinkering with
how they measure things like inflation to make the number look smaller.
<a href="https://www.shadowstats.com/alternate_data/inflation-charts"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Shadow Stats</a> keeps track of these
changes and reframes official economic numbers in the old way of
measuring them, so that we can compare today with the past.

When we take an honest look at the economy over the last few years, we
see that inflation was comparable to the 1970’s, but not quite as high.
People who buy food will tell you that prices are rising again, despite
some relief last year. In the end, we could replicate the 1970’s in
terms of the pattern and duration, even if overall inflation figures are
not quite the same. The reason people think the economy stinks, despite
the official numbers, is that is does stink for people who buy things.

That brings us back to that Reagan quip and another key point. The
American economy over the last thirty years has transformed into
something that is really good for people in finance, government, the
academy and corporate governance, but it has not been great for people
who make things and fix things. The nurse practitioner, which is really
a government job, is doing great, but her patients who work in the
honest economy are finding it hard to pay those health insurance bills.

Returning to that magic formula for measuring GDP, if the Investment
side grows, but consumption remains flat, then GDP rises. Since
government always grows and that growth is fueled by the Fed creating
debt through the banking system, GDP is just about guaranteed to grow
every year, even if the economy is in recession. Put another way,
debt-driven government growth not only corrupts the nation but it
corrupts the way in which we can measure the corruption.

This corruption has been highly effective. The typical American has
barely noticed that it requires two incomes to have the life that used
to be possible on a single income, at least for the middle-class. The
baby boomers grew up in one income, intact two-parent homes, but they
lived as adults in two income, often broken homes. The relative material
prosperity came at the cost of social capital. The new way of measuring
things masked the real trade-offs that came with the new economy.

We may be reaching the end of the line with the new way of measuring
things, which is why people are not buying the official numbers. Those
bulging baby boomer portfolios cannot mask the fact that their kids are
saddled with debt and are struggling to maintain a lifestyle the parents
took for granted. Of course, the next round of young people will enter
adulthood in debt and looking forward to paying the pensions and health
care costs of eight million retired people.

What all of this gets to is that measuring is necessary, but it is not
*how* things are measured that matters. It is *who* does the measuring.
That was the subtext of that Reagan quip half a century ago. Americans
are pessimistic about the economy because it is not good for them. It
may be great for the people doing the measuring, but that does not
change the fact the typical American is not experiencing great times.
That is because of who is in charge, not how they got there.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="NQOXEbs1JxIvbYSFpxzUkg==cb7yZl4SlZRl4HfCqa0jJ8WK6KJdS2lWLbzQ0lCbgT8t7paiR1QtVxUJuteCLLOr24j"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="lrIqOg2MU2U7WJFmZBiFog==cb7kDJIqthEva/5WHCRO4eZrqC+mRuKY/iM8cAP0aIPC8UWX5JEbhMzNTqQszEKaS1y"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
