---
title: "The Arc Of Managerialism"
date: "2024-02-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31503"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31503"
---

In March of 2021, the FBI conducted a raid of a company called U.S.
Private Vaults located in Beverly Hills, California. The company offered
safe deposit boxes to clients seeking privacy and security. Banks have
rules about what can be kept in their safe deposit boxes and often
require disclosure of the contents. This company did not place such
restrictions on their clients. As a result, it was assumed its clients
were criminals or people who would like to circumvent government
surveillance.

For this reason and no other reason, the FBI got a warrant to inspect
the company’s records, presumably to confirm that criminals were using
the service. The legality of this was not questioned by the judge who
signed off on the warrant because judges no longer question warrant
requests from agents of the state. The FBI could hand a judge a drawing
of stick figures in fingerpaint, claiming it is surveillance video of
criminal activity and the judge would accept it.

Putting that aside, the warrant made no mention of opening the safe
deposit boxes or inspecting the contents for criminal activity. On the
day of the raid, the special agent in charge of the raid ordered his
agents to pry open the boxes, inventory the contents, bring in drug
sniffing dogs to sniff the contents and collect fingerprints from the
boxes and the inside of the facility. Then the FBI decided to seize tens
of millions in property on the grounds that they could do it.

At this point, the FBI had produced no evidence of a crime. They were
probably right that criminals would like to use such a service to hide
cash, valuables they bought for money laundering purposes and other
things. It would also be attractive to foreign nationals working on
behalf of a foreign government. Mossad, for example, could use a company
like this as a dead drop. Space aliens could also use it to hide their
ray guns and the keys to their flying saucer.

Again, there was never any evidence of wrongdoing. The FBI lied to the
court about their intensions, and they willingly violated the law when
they decided to not only pry open the boxes, but also steal the goods
inside them. The owners of the stolen property sued the FBI to get back
their property. The court initially ruled in favor of the FBI because
the courts are almost as corrupt as the FBI. The 9th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals unanimously reversed the lower court’s decision.

In its ruling, the court called the raid an egregious violation of the
owners fourth amendment rights. They also noted that the FBI clearly
intended to steal the contents so they could use what they found in
order to go after other people, perhaps raid other private security
services in a similar fashion. The government tried to settle the case
before it reached this point, suggesting they knew they had willingly
violated the law, but they hoped to avoid the court making it official.

Presumably, the FBI will return the property to the owners, but the
owners will have to sue the government in order to get back the cost of
having to litigate this in federal court for the last three years. The
government will probably settle so as to avoid another potential court
loss, but the harm can never be fully cured. The company went out of
business and who would trust a similar company in the future? If the
secret police can willy-nilly raid a private business, what is the point
of the service?

More importantly, none of the people involved in this raid from the
government side has faced any punishment. The agent who ordered the raid
was not fired. The agents and lawyers who lied to the court to get the
warrant were not fired. There will be no criminal charges brought
against any of these people, despite the fact they committed some of the
worst abuses of power in our system. The Ruby Ridge and Waco cases tell
us that the agents involved here will get promoted.

In the managerial state, no one is ever held accountable because
accountability requires two elements missing in managerialism. One is a
moral duty to the stated goal of the institution. If the people inside
the FBI were motivated by an aristocratic spirit, the agents involved
would all resign for having shamed their leaders. If they had a
republican spirit, they would resign for having shamed the institution.
Instead, they have a managerial spirit, which means no shame is
possible.

The other element for accountability is clear responsibility.
Managerialism is primarily about shifting responsibility from
individuals onto collections of managers with a shared interest in
controlling the organization. It is the magic trick of managerialism
that collective error is never the fault of anyone in the collective.
Managers socialize failure onto the abstraction that is the system,
while privatizing the benefits onto the individuals within the
managerial system.

This is why reform of managerialism is impossible. Reform starts by
holding people responsible for the results. Managerialism evolved to
prevent this so the reformer is either repelled by the system or
consumed by it. This is why public companies that fail must be taken
private. Elon Musk bought Twitter, took it private and became the man
responsible for the company. He then fired half the staff and started
holding the rest accountable for their work. He overthrew the managerial
system.

Of course, this means the large social systems that control American
society will never be reformed either. Everyone in Washington knows the
FBI is a disaster, but no one can be held accountable, so not one tries
to hold anyone accountable. This means the managerial state will follow
the arc of all public companies in that it will reach its end phase and
either collapse entirely or be taken private, as in private rule, so the
system can be scrapped along with the managers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="wcYvF/ypfQ2TsKkmF8gxYw==cb7doJDGhQUo94pz61FMTf5FhwUIBK4Qm6SkVR2uoJOU24sRegTAUdZYALHTp5W/6A6"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="4I8xaVMIZiG+eP5qER6DRw==cb7+MEnJ9fVGnhd00eIUyzoA5fr0OQr1NjBVfATCKHMC6AbUz+YG6mRSlGbcW4233N0"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
