---
title: "A Flower In The Parking Lot"
date: "2024-01-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31437"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31437"
---

**Note:** Events are taking me on the road before the cock crows, so
today the post is something from behind the green door. This post is
from a a week ago when I had to rent a car. Something similar is
happening this weekend but for entirely different reasons, so the post
is appropriate.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

We are expecting the white death this weekend and my car is useless in
the snow, so I booked a rental for the weekend. God’s country is
expecting five to eight inches of snow on Saturday and the tiny roads
will not see a plow until late Sunday, so I needed something that could
give me a chance to get off the mountain. I booked what the web site
said was a front wheel drive Volkswagen or similar.

The key words are always “or similar” with rental cars and “similar”
turned out to be a Jeep Gladiator, which is like a Jeep with a pickup
bed on it. It did not cost more and they were happy to see me take it,
so it worked out for the best. I can now haul some junk from Lagos to
the new place. That and the thing is pretty much a tank, so I should
have no trouble in the snow.

Standing in the lot waiting for the rental car guy to do his thing, I
looked around at the cars and struggled to tell the models. I am not a
car guy, but I used to know a Toyota from a Ford without much trouble.
Car companies all had their distinctive styles, which was one way they
differentiated themselves. Cars are a utility good, but aesthetics are
what gets people to sign on the dotted line.

I was reminded of something a crazy guy told me when I was a teenager.
He said that by the time I was his age, all cars would look the same.
His reasoning was that the drive for efficiency would lead to a singular
shape that was the most efficient both in terms of aerodynamics, but
also in design cost. All the car maker’s efforts were converging on a
singularity of sorts and all cars would look the same.

Crazy guy was mostly right. In the economy and mid-market range, it is
hard to tell one model from another. It is not just the exterior. Inside
they are all the same too. Options vary, but the options list from
Toyota is no different from the options list at the other makers and the
pricing is the same. Like the rental car page, we are reaching a point
where cars are just small, medium, large and similar.

There are exceptions to this process. The Jeeps are outliers. Ford is
selling a Bronco that is supposed to compete with the Jeep, but the best
I can tell the Bronco is more like the other SUV’s on the market. The
Jeep is a genuine off-road vehicle, even in this age of safety
compliance and standardization. Driving this thing around is not quite
like a pickup truck and nothing like an SUV.

Of course, there are sports cars. I stopped to grab the mail and there
was a Corvette in the parking lot. Like the Jeep, it fills a category
unique to itself. It is not in the same league as a Porsche or the
high-end BMW’s and Audis. It is not a supercar, but it is not a muscle
car either. I see a lot of the new models around so they must be popular
with people who are not conformists.

I used to joke that if a man fell asleep in 1965 and awoke in the modern
age, he would walk around a parking lot thinking the commies won the
Cold War. The aesthetics of this age are dreadful and they are getting
worse. That Corvette I saw in the parking lot was like a singular flower
blooming against a black and white scene. The dreary cars around it
threatening to snuff out the last bit of beauty.

The raises the question of why the car makers are not doing as they did
in the past and making weird looking cars. The main reason is the
economics of car making have stamped out all signs of adventurism. Every
automotive executive knows the story of Saab and its last years making
cars. The engineers and managers wanted to make cool cars, but that
brought risk and that meant added cost.

General Motors owned Saab at the time and they were not interested in
taking risks so they finally shuttered the Saab brand. When you learn
about the story of how Saab died you cannot help but think that it was
more than just economics. The ugly people at GM could not tolerate the
free thinking that was the spirit of the Saab brand. They were the gray
background swallowing up the colorful flower.

Of course, there needs to be a market for risk taking. America is no
longer a place for young risk takers. It is a place for old
fuddy-duddies who live in constant fear of risk because risk could mean
the icy hand of death. America has always been a business and now it is
a mature business with little tolerance for risk, so even if you wanted
to make a funky car for the masses, the market would be small.

At the new place, I noticed that everyone seems to drive a Subaru or a
pickup truck with most drives have one of each. The Subaru is great for
bad weather driving on hilly country roads and the pickup is good for
hauling stuff. I am not ready to be a Subaru man, so maybe I will like
this Jeep enough to buy one. Maybe buy a red one so I can be that flower
blooming in the grayness for a little while longer.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="FpS6R1mXFslmP3mr9UEf7w==cb7UElHcmr/Jj8iA7QhfvMCX8ELVeXf0Ur9PTdZrf0i4QbDtL0m2pMNpI02GqYTMlZo"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="TKnupXCMx+3Ib6xSg8in+w==cb7/Q5tQ3z/kRYQDA7EdD2o+if1VPmya2kXSG2NDxgC6TDWT4LnvVUGteEUMkLEH5gs"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
