---
title: "Athenian Lessons"
date: "2024-04-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31917"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31917"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about what is now considered a
classic children’s film, a post about joining the Gaia cult via battery
powered tools and the Sunday podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There has always been a fascination in the West with ancient philosophy,
especially the Greeks, as it is assumed Greeks gave us philosophy.
Studying the Ancients used to be a central part of liberal education.
You could not be a well-rounded, educated person without at least some
exposure to Greek philosophy. That has died out in elite circles, but it
continues in less elite circles. The internet is full of philosophers
without portfolio talking about and teaching the Ancients.

The funny thing about this recent fascination with the Ancients is that
it tends to ignore the part most relevant to our age, which is the
Peloponnesian War. The internet is full of people interested in the
pre-Socratics and, of course, legions who want to talk about Plato and
Aristotle, but few hipsters are into what is arguably the most important
war in human history, or at least Western history. Similarly, Thucydides
is the one Ancient who seems to be on everyone’s ignore list.

One reason for that is despite the greatness of Athens, she was on the
losing side in this great battle in the ancient world. Not only did
Athens lose to Sparta, but she also lost her democracy for a period when
the Spartans imposed an oligarchy. This was eventually overthrown, but
the aftermath was the Golden age of Greek philosophy, which suggests
maybe it was not Athenian democracy that gave us Socrates, Plato, and
Aristotle but the failure of democracy that produced these men.

That is open to dispute, obviously, but given the times, it seems that
the place to start, if one is hoping to find answers to the current
crisis in the ancient world, is not the time after Athens lost the war,
but the period before it. The heroic ideas that come from the Ancients
are in the period prior to the Peloponnesian War, when the Greek world
struggled to unite in order to defeat the Persians. This was the time of
Thermopylae, Marathon, and the great sea battle at Salamis.

It was after the stunning defeat of the mighty Persians that Athens was
at its peak politically and militarily. This is where to start when
thinking about what went wrong leading to the defeat at the hands of
Sparta. Athens was economically, culturally, and militarily stronger
than Sparta, so what happened that eventually led to Athens losing the
war to Sparta and her allies? More important, what does this have to do
with the American empire in the current crisis?

The first thing to consider is Athenian democracy during the wars with
Persia evolved into a wartime operating system. The focus of all
internal debate was toward the goal of beating back the Persians. More
important, the great success over Persia validated this way of
organizing Athenian society and how it approached the world. Her
identity was created during the victory over Persia. Put another way,
the telos of the Athenian way of life was making war, not making peace.

It is why Athens wanted to continue the war with Persian after the
Battle of Plataea, which was the final victory over the Persians. In the
process of beating back the Persians, Athens had become a war machine.
Sparta, on the other hand, wanted no part in what would be a foreign
adventure. For the Spartans, the defeat of Persia changed nothing about
how they engaged with the world or organized their society, so it was
just another successful defense of their homeland.

Put another way, the lesson the Spartan rulers gained from the victory
of Persia is that you should always be vigilant in defense of the
homeland, by making sure to never get tangled up in a foreign adventure.
Athens, in contrast, came away sure that their culture and political
order were morally superior. The proof of this was the victory over the
competing moral order of the time, what the Athenians saw as tyranny.
The Athenian way of life was morally superior to the alternatives.

Now, this is a topic that could fill a library, but the very general
point is that the reason Athens became so warlike after the defeat of
Persia is that Athens was morally defined during the Persian war. While
it did not think of itself as an empire or a war machine, it did come to
assume it was the morally superior moral order. It beat back the
Persians because it operated on a higher moral plane. This sense of
moral superiority inevitably led to the aggressive behavior toward the
Greek world.

There is a parallel for our age. The American empire has become a
belligerent and reckless giant in geopolitics. Like Athens, the American
empire projects power over the seas and through control of the financial
system. Also, like Athens, the American empire is hell-bent on picking
fights with the great land powers. Instead of Sparta it is Russia and
now China. The American empire today looks a lot like what the ancient
world faced with the Athenians before the Peloponnesian War.

To continue the comparison, we could look at the American victory in the
Cold War as something like the Athenian defeat of Persia. From the
perspective of both sides of the Cold War, the struggle was not an
old-fashioned fight over resources and status, but a fight between two
competing ideologies. Ideologies are about how men ought to organize
their societies, so an ideological war is a war over competing moral
systems and the winner can claim the moral high ground

The United States, after the Second World War was the defender of
freedom, not simply the winner of the war. The eventual defeat of Soviet
Communism was proof the American way of doing things was the only proper
way of doing things. It is why the end of the Cold War did not result in
a long-earned peace dividend, but rather one crusade after another to
impose liberalism on the world. The so-called end of history was the
start of the great liberal crusade to set the world right.

The other angle here is that the American empire, like Athens during the
wars with Persia, evolved into a war machine during the Cold War. The
great engine of war making that was created to beat the fascists quickly
converted to a way of life seen necessary in defending against
communism. For close to half a century, the American empire was a war
society. Everything was organized for that purpose, so after the Cold
War, that purpose needed a target.

Of course, you can probably start this parallel back further and compare
the defeat of the fascists with the defeat of Persia. In this version,
the Cold War is one part of what will be seen as the American
Peloponnesian War. The first half was the Cold War and the second half,
which will lead to a final end of this democratic empire, will come at
the hands of the Russians or Chinese or both. It is not a perfect
parallel, as historical parallels are never perfect.

If you prefer, you could drop the parallel to the Peloponnesian War and
just focus on the fact that Athens evolved morally during its war with
Persia. Similarly, the American empire has evolved in wars against what
it has viewed as anti-democratic and anti-egalitarian organizing
systems. The birth of the American imperial mindset was Gettysburg and
for over a century since the Civil War, this imperial mindset has found
one monster to slay after another.

In the end, the reason America is now seen as a global bully and
troublemaker is it is what it evolved to do which is find wrongs to
right. The America that evolved to become the global superpower, the
final superpower, did not evolve to keep the peace, but to defeat
enemies of its moral order. Like Athens after the defeat of the
Persians, the American democracy needs an enemy to exist. As with
Athens, the rest of the world now must figure out how to disarm a global
belligerent.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="RSGgNffw4nTPkRrp9QlQ+A==cb769ArFJxSSpddPqCTK4qBff2WidwLGmFDzeGjm66phU8KtGxG4s4FnBdRKlDnaaud"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="W9oSOZQwwJIIjQuT/iraOA==cb7bxu1JPMc1UAcPiXMcovhnqywXobF6Exf3cN1ladx2rFA2N7YKh3MVjvH1bh5JUQi"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
