---
title: "Failure Management"
date: "2024-02-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31636"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31636"
---

<span style="color: #ff0000;">**Note To SubscribeStar Users:**</span> I
was told that their payment processor made some changes, so that screwed
up some of the renewals. The usual suspects continue to harass credit
card processors who do business with normal people. It is a hassle, for
sure, but a reality of life these days.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The term “deep state” has been overused and abused to the point where it
is meaningless, but the concept behind it remains useful. Conceptually,
it simply means the permanent state, the individuals and institutions
that lie behind the facade of our democratic processes and institutions.
Politicians come and go but there is a permanent managerial elite that
runs the important institutions. The C.I.A., for example, does not
change after a presidential election brings in a new president.

That is what makes this <a
href="https://www.nytimes.com/2024/02/25/world/europe/cia-ukraine-intelligence-russia-war.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">long piece</a> in the New York Times
about the C.I.A. operating in Ukraine an interesting bit for
regime-ology. There is not a single punctuation mark in that piece that
was not vetted by the C.I.A. Senior people in the agency wanted that
piece in the “newspaper of record” so they made sure the senior people
at the paper put reliable stenographers on the job. It is why it reads
like a marketing piece extolling the accomplishments and capabilities of
the agency.

The part that is getting the most attention is that the agency has been
operating secret bases in Ukraine since the U.S. led coup in 2014. The
newly installed spy chief of Ukraine was in contact with British and
American spy agencies on day one, which is a strange thing to make
public. On the one hand, the agency wants the world to know that they
have been trying to undermine Russia from bases in Ukraine for a decade,
but at the same time they were invited into to do the work.

One way to read this is as a signal to Russian intelligence that when
the war is over there will be no hard feelings. It is just the old game.
While the agency did the task assigned to it by the political side of
Washington, the agency bears no ill-will to the Russians with regards to
Ukraine. In the article there are several examples of how the agency
supposedly told the Ukrainians that they were not so conduct
assassinations or terrorist operations inside of Russia.

That sounds like something out of a John le Carré novel, but like the
rest of permanent Washington, the C.I.A. is still stuck in the Cold War.
This is not the first time that stories planted by the agency have made
the point that the Ukrainians have been operating outside the parameters
set by the C.I.A., so it is fair to assume that this is a point that is
important to the agency for some reason. It could have to do with
internal politics between factions in Washington.

Another way to read this is as a way to prepare the ground for the very
bad news that is coming out of Ukraine this year. Again, that Times
piece reads like marketing material for the agency, which may be
intended to shield it from criticism when Project Ukraine falls apart
this summer. They can tell the politicians that they did what they could
to help Ukraine, but the warmongers in the State Department, along with
their puppets in Ukraine, screwed it up.

This interpretation is supported by the panic we are seeing in the
political class over the last couple of weeks. Chuck Schumer is now
threatening House Speaker Mike Johnson over the Ukraine money. The
people controlling Joe Biden are putting on a <a
href="https://thehill.com/homenews/4491739-schumer-jeffries-say-ukraine-discussion-was-intense/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">full court press</a> to get that money,
even threatening a <a
href="https://rollcall.com/2024/02/27/biden-leaders-optimistic-about-avoiding-shutdown-press-johnson-on-ukraine/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">government shutdown</a>. In Europe,
French president Emanual Macron held an emergency meeting of EU
countries to discuss sending troops from EU countries to Ukraine.

The reason for the panic is the war has taken a bad turn. The Russians
broke through a key stronghold called Avdeevka. This was a fortified
city that secured a key part of the front in the Donbass. This has
opened up a hole in the Ukrainian defenses and has the Ukrainians
scrambling to build new defensive lines further West. In the north and
the south, the Russians are slowly taking ground and inflicting heavier
and heavier damage to the Ukrainian army, which is showing signs of
breaking.

While no one expects the Ukrainian army to collapse anytime soon, it is
clear that it is no longer about if the army will break but when it will
break. They are running out of men to fight, as the losses have been
staggering over the last year. They also have critical shortages of
essential materials like artillery shells. This is why Macron is
floating the idea of sending troops to Ukraine. It is also why NATO
secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg wants Ukraine to <a
href="https://www.ft.com/content/175bd28f-1eb8-4f57-9cf4-110cca055747"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">target</a> Russian cities with missiles.

Meanwhile, the public face of the Kagan cult that controls the State
Department is making the rounds, <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/videos/world/2024/02/20/intv-amanpour-ukraine-russia-us-victoria-nuland-war.cnn"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">threatening</a> to kill Valdimir Putin.
Victoria Nuland is doing what these people always do and that is double
down on failure. As far as Nuland is concerned, the deteriorating
situation in Ukraine is proof that the West must pour even more
resources into the Ukraine project. If it means nuclear war with Russia,
that is just the price that must be paid to finish the job in Ukraine.

What all of this suggests is that the people operating behind the
curtain are deeply worried about project Ukraine. Things may be worse
than what the general public can see through social media and local
reports. That New York Times piece extolling the glories of the C.I.A.
is a glimpse of the jockeying that is going on behind the scenes to see
who takes the blame for the failure. More precisely, to see who gets to
blame which politicians for the failure of Project Ukraine.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="QFuK7Fl822Xr/Fkj7+5eLA==cb71EJWAf6i+/KhDMPqsH8zaoVZUu2h4oBT4kUWcCgFeWsWmfU/kkZn/lRls2QL0QKy"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="G3p0TIn9UGxX05YDoGgmnQ==cb7VyypKFZUfKDOcfHcE8FAaG2rMHAVd/gnk3Az9+Z7y+44b5yAiiIqCdfOIqQlBomw"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
