---
title: "The Heart of Blandness"
date: "2024-02-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31541"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31541"
---

**Note:** The podcast is delayed. The day job sucked up all of my time
the last two days, even most of last night, so I need to take a nap and
then I will put the show together later today and get it posted. This is
a green door post from earlier in the week that should hold everyone
over until the show is posted.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the things about mass popular culture that is taken for granted,
but is genuinely novel, is that pop culture artifacts come to symbolize
certain eras. The Great Gatsby, which is a middling novel, is on the
list of great novels because it seems to capture our popular conception
of the roaring twenties. You read that novel in school because it helps
understand the era from a pop culture perspective.

We do not have this for the time before mass popular culture. What is
the song that defines the 1890’s? Funny you should ask as there are
people who compile such things, but do any on this list make you think
of the 1890’s? The songs we can hear from the early days of music
recording just remind us of the time when recorded sound was just
getting started, not any particular cultural era.

Era defining songs, movies or even television shows are products of mass
popular culture, especially electronic media. When I hear All Along The
Watchtower by Jimi Hendrix, I think about the late 1960’s. Leave it To
Beaver is the defining television show of the 1950’s, despite not being
very popular. Similarly, Apocalypse Now, which was released in 1979, is
considered one the defining movies of the Vietnam era.

Oddly, the film is not about Vietnam or the war. John Milius wrote an
adaptation of the Joseph Conrad novella The Heart of Darkness and set it
in the Vietnam war, as that was a popular topic at the time. This
allowed Francis Ford Coppola to play on baby boomer nostalgia and use a
bunch of popular music from the period. It is also why it has become a
defining film of the Vietnam era.

Whether or not Apocalypse Now is the best Vietnam war film is debatable.
Many people think Platoon is the best of the Vietnam films. Full Metal
Jacket is another iconic film about the era. The Deer Hunter is another
candidate. Interestingly, all of the films on the list of best Vietnam
war films were made long after the war. The worst Vietnam film was The
Green Berets, produced at the height of the war.

As far as Apocalypse Now, which is the next film on the AFI top-100, it
is hard to call it a great film without the cultural context. If it had
been based in the Korean war, it is possible that no one would know
about it. Much of its fame and popularity stems from the history in
which it is set and the period in which it was made. The late 1970’s and
early 1980’s was a time of reconciliation for the country.

The big problem with the film is nothing really happens. Benjamin L.
Willard, played by Martin Sheen, is sent into the jungle to find
renegade Colonel Kurtz, played by Marlon Brando, and then kill him. In
theory he is going on a journey on which he will either learn something
about himself or learn something about the human condition. Instead, he
is the same guy at the end as he was at the beginning.

The Conrad story, in contrast, is about how a similar journey changed
the man telling the story in ways he was never able to fully appreciate.
He was changed by going to the deepest, darkest parts of Africa, but by
the end he is still struggling to fully understand what he witnessed. He
saw the great horror of the human condition, but he does not know what
to do with what he learned.

In this film, we know nothing about Willard, other than he is a deeply
cynical person, presumably from having served in the war for a long
time. His experiences along the journey do not make him question
anything about himself. He was sent to kill Kurtz and he never wavers
from his mission. In the end he kills Kurtz, but not for some new reason
he discovers as part of his journey of self-discovery.

At the risk of engaging in generational politics, this film is
quintessential baby boomer high culture in that it operates at a
superficial level. Everyone in the film is just what they are,
experiencing things that never seem to have any impact on them. Like the
intended audience, Willard just collects a bunch of new experiences. He
did stuff. He did not live his life in any way that anyone would find
interesting.

This film reminds me of the sketch concept in writing. The point is to
create a character by putting him into situations in which his reactions
to those situations tell us about the character. There is no character
development. The situation matters only as a way to describe the
character. It is a good way to record the present moment or establish
the start to a story, but otherwise meaningless.

That is why this film probably belongs on the list of great films.
Again, at the risk of engaging in generational politics, this film
captures the essence of a generation even though it does not set out to
do so. The generation for which this film was made set out, to some
degree, to discover the essence of life, to taste the marrow, but
instead indulged in meaningless gestures and pointless activities.

That is what the makers of this film ended up doing. It started with
great ambition to bring the Conrad story to film, but in the end, it was
just lots of impressive scenes and performances, but totally devoid of
meaning. The viewer has no reason to think about Kurtz or Willard after
their story ends. The film, like the lives of the characters, and
perhaps the intended audience, leaves no impression.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="yE4RTbU9tVpSVtm17t9JyQ==cb7D16rvpcaOjKkCqDv+2377Rpzvu6sib5lQJd7+VuQ8ED14MIJ2qU/u6QXtspR79RN"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="8Q/F5lFsFmSBBOm+HrKLXQ==cb7zVI9eKFXgXxdTOTAVMxcOHJwZxlV1LJ7fqgsXdPQPfUx47wpqTlqv4Ik+4ftBMpn"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
