---
title: "The Antidote"
date: "2024-12-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-12-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33121"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33121"
---

A central feature of the democratic society is mendacity. The more
democratic the culture, the less honest the participants. The reason for
that is simple. The goal in a democratic system, whether it is a
marketplace for goods and service or a political system for setting
public policy, is to win the crowd. You do not necessarily have to win a
majority, but you need enough to lie about having a majority. To do that
you must say anything to bring the mob to your side.

This is the reason we know or care about Socrates. Ancient Athens was a
democratic society, where rhetoric was the prized skill. The reason for
that is status was rewarded to those who could win over their fellow
citizens through argument. Inevitably the truth stopped mattering very
much, as people tend to believe a good story, especially one that
flatters them, over objective reality. Socrates skillfully argued in
favor of the truth over rhetoric, so the Athenians voted to kill him.

Lying is a funny thing as everyone lies about something, usually in a
moment of weakness or in an effort to be prudent. As a result, normal
people think of lying as a thing you do reluctantly. You lie about not
having broken something at work, even though in the long run honestly
would be your better option. You tell the friend that his new car is
great, even though you think it is ridiculous for a middle-aged man to
be driving around in a Miata. It hurts to say it, but friendship
requires it.

While everyone lies, most people are honest. They think the truth
matters, even if the truth is unwelcome. You want the doctor to tell you
the truth about your health, not because it will have an impact on your
health, but because it is your health, and you have a right to know the
truth about it. This sense of entitlement with regards to the truth
stems from the fact that all humans possess the tools to conceive of
what with think is reality and therefore we are entitled to reality.

It is why most people struggle to accept that there are people who are
not honest, so they do not struggle with the lie. In fact, they take
pleasure in tricking people, even when the truth would serve their
interest. Unlike the honest person, the Democratic Man sees truth
telling as a weakness. He speaks the truth only when forced into it and
seems to see it as a weakness. For him, the truth is bait to lure in the
honest to trick them into something they would otherwise resist.

An example of this is in The Atlantic, a publication that has become the
symbol of democratic mendacity. In less democratic times, it was a
journal for the intellectual class of the WASP ruling elite. Now it is a
vulgar tabloid used to insert falsehoods into the media ecosystem. This
<a href="https://archive.is/Yh8JL" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">post</a> from David Frum is a perfect example.
Everything about it is a lie from the very first sentence. From there is
a clever monument to the art of lying to trick the intended audience.

“For more than four decades before Donald Trump assumed the presidency,
the FBI director was a position above politics” is what someone once
described as a lie so colossal that people assume there must be some
truth to it because they cannot believe that anyone would lie so
infamously. Bill Clinton fired the FBI Director, Bill Sessions, as soon
as he came to power. He replaced the capable Sessions with the
thoroughly incompetent Janet Reno.

The fact is every position in Washington is political. You cannot be in
politics without being political, which means taking a side. David Frum
surely knows this, but he likes lying and he has an agenda. One of the
funny things about this type is they often start with a kernel of truth
around which they wrap their lies. In this case, the kernel of truth is
that the FBI helped the media drive off Nixon. The schemers are hoping a
similar thing happens (again) once Trump takes office.

This is just one recent example. You can scan the regime media sites and
find hundreds of examples on a daily basis. We live in a time when the
only reasons to consume mass media are entertainment and to learn what
is not true. People like David Frum make being funny on social media
much easier. If you see an assertion of fact in the Wall Street Journal,
then you know what is not true about that particular subject and can
eliminate it from the set of possible truths.

The question, from a sociological and analytical perspective, is whether
the system produces the mendacious or whether it simply elevates them.
Since Grog sold Trog a bad wheel, lying has been a part of human
society. Along with it we have evolved various ways to guard against it,
both individually and collectively. Among European people, social rules
evolved to sort people between the trusted and the untrustworthy,
creating moral societies rather than tribal ones.

Therefore, if liars have always been an issue for human society, it
means the proliferation of liars is a product of the current rules. We
are becoming a low trust society either because we are conditioning each
generation to prize mendacity over the truth or the system rewards the
mendacious over the honest, thus flooding the public square with
shameless liars. The lack of shame is a critical piece, as moral
societies rely on shame to govern behavior.

The counter to this is someone like
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Titus_Oates" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Tutus Oates</a>. He was an English priest who fabricated
a conspiracy to kill Charles II. This was the “Popish Plot” that made
him quite famous and wealthy for a time. This was just one of his many
lies and schemes that often had no obvious benefit to him. Like Hillary
Clinton, he loved lying. Eventually, people caught onto his tricks, but
again like Hillary Clinton, he used more tricks to escape the hangman’s
noose and continue with his mendacity.

This perfect example of the modern pundit lived in the 17th century when
democracy was limited to arguments among nobles after too many drinks.
This was the restoration, a time when popular government had a very bad
odor. Of course, one could argue that the flickers of democracy under
Cromwell fertilized the ground where the seeds of mendacity had lied
dormant. Still, in a decidedly undemocratic society a trickster like
Oates was able to thrive for a little while.

None of this may seem to matter, but Western people evolved over
thousands of generations to exist in high trust societies. Unlike the
tribal people of sub-Saharan Africa who organize around the tribe or the
people in the Middle East who organize around the clan, Europeans
organize around a set of moral codes. The proliferation of liars who
have undermined social trust are making Western societies unlivable. The
next step is they become ungovernable.

What that means for the reform minded is that for reform to work,
Western societies must become hostile to people like David Frum. Either
they sink in status to the point where they are nothing more than a
warning to others or they find life in a high trust society too
terrifying, so they self-deport. In other words, the goal of reform must
be elevating candor to the highest quality, as the necessary antidote to
the mendacity that has come to dominate the modern West.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="5mfIh/vdE36FJJQfDthKUA==cb7Qdz87DapklHo24ZNwBEs0O5WyAYjMH2FxoetwVOBo+5CaGqOwjGg3AheUlusoAAa"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="/eA5rvoh1fF27nq2Oln97g==cb7nMB3CHFZxQFldcHrB85oZWYjkqLxV8kaxeDX+Nvo94cOAorubXX0g6Ce44k2Ruk6"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
