---
title: "The Kazan Catastrophe"
date: "2024-10-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-10-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32922"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32922"
---

Back in the ancient times, if you wished to buy product from someone you
arrived at their location with money, or they arrived at your location
with product. The product was inspected, and the money was inspected.
Once both sides were satisfied, the exchange was made, and the deal was
done. It did not take long for a class of middlemen to turn up who
brokered such deals. They inspected the goods, arranged transportation
and safeguarded the product and the money.

World trade has not changed much since the ancient times. Middlemen
still facilitate most of the trade. They are called banks, insurance
companies, freight brokers, shipping companies and so forth, but they
are all part of this vast and essential middleman economy that makes it
possible for the local Walmart to have shelves stuffed with goods from
Asia. It is what makes it possible for the Chinese company selling dog
food to get paid by Walmart.

One thing to note about this setup is the two greatest seafaring nations
in the history of the planet, the United States and Britain, do very
little shipping. Instead, they control the flow of goods around the
world through control of the insurance markets and the financial system
used in global trade. If you are involved in global trade, you are
certainly using the American financial system and either directly or
indirectly the British maritime insurance system.

The dollar being the world’s reserve currency has been to this point the
main driver of the explosion in global trade. The buyer in South America
can do business with a seller in China, because his bank is connected to
the American financial system through his country’s central bank. He
does not have to get RMB from his bank to pay the Chinese vendors,
because the exchange is done automatically through the dollar dominated
global financial system.

This is about to change with the launch of an alternative payment system
that was announced at the BRICS summit in Kazan Russia. The Russians and
the Chinese have been working on creating an alternative to SWIFT, which
stands for Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications.
It is the platform that networks the world’s banks to facilitate the
flow of money around the world. The new system seeks to replace SWIFT
for trade among the BRICS countries.

For most people this is an eye-glazing topic, but in the fullness of
time it could be an event that generations of historians study as an
inflection point. What the BRICS countries are seeking to do is wrest
control of the global financial system from the West, specifically the
English-speaking countries, at least for the members of BRICS and those
countries willing to trade with BRICS. By extension, it is an effort to
reduce the power of the dollar and thus the power of the American
empire.

What this new system proposes to do is make it easier for participating
countries to conduct business in the currency of other participating
countries. Instead of China needing dollars to buy oil from the Saudis
and therefore preferring dollars from other countries for Chinese goods,
the Chinese will be able to buy oil in RMB and the Saudis will be able
to buy Chinese goods in whatever currency they possess. The new system
would handle the conversion and exchange rates instantly.

As an aside, that last part is interesting. In the United States, a
business does not get paid by the credit card company for a few days.
Often, the delay is longer. Of course, there are fees for taking credit
card payments. In Russia and China, the movement of money is instant.
The system is treated as a public utility, so fees are relatively small
compared to what we see in the West. This is owing to much better and
newer technology and a different attitude toward banking.

That aside, the significance of this proposal is enormous. The BRICS
countries represent half the world’s population. The Arab oil countries,
particularly Saudi Arabia, are onboard for this new system. The Saudis
let expire the fifty-year-old deal with Washington that established the
petrodollar. China, India and Russia are the driving force behind this
new arrangement and represent three of the most important economic
powerhouses in the world at the moment.

What this means for the West is far less influence over the rest of the
world through the control of the financial system. The main reason
China, Russia and India have pushed for this new system is they have
grown weary of Washington abusing its position to bully the rest of the
world. The sanctions war unleashed by Washington against Russia in 2022
was the final straw. If Washington would use the dollar to try regime
change in Russia, it would do it to anyone, especially China.

What the BRICS summit in Kazan represents is decades of belligerently
incompetent foreign policy in Washington. Ten years ago, it was
inconceivable that these important countries would come together to
create a parallel financial system, as all of them were committed to the
dollar and the Western system. They were committed to the “rules-based
order” because they assumed it served their interests, but decades of
abuse by Washington has convinced them otherwise.

What this means for the West is clear. What we see forming up is a
trading and cooperation block that includes all the countries outside
the West, representing the bulk of the world’s population and the
majority of economic activity. Add in the fact that the West has let its
manufacturing base shrivel and seems to be at war with its agricultural
base and you can see the problem. Economies based in providing services
tied to the financial system are facing a cliff now.

For the United States, this could not come at a worse time. Debt is
already at staggering levels and is accelerating. The productive and
innovative portion of the population is aging, while the unproductive
portion is exploding. Add in decades of infrastructure neglect, the
demographic and cultural catastrophes, and now is not a good time for a
decline in the dollar. America is an empire that debased its currency
via the perfidious subversion of its own rules.

Contrary to some claims, the dollar is not about to collapse, but what
Kazan signals is the steady decline in the dollar. As the rest of the
world begins to trade outside the dollar, it means dollars and
instruments denominated in dollars, like debt, will lose value on the
global market. This means the American banking system must slow the
creation of dollars to prevent inflation. This means the cost of
borrowing dollars must go up and stay up in anticipation of declining
dollar demand

The steady decline of the dollar means a steady decline in the American
standard of living, baring a revolution in Washington. Being the world’s
mint and banker only works if the world accepts what you are minting. A
rentier economy reliant on skimming from every transaction is only
possible if you control the currency. The parasitism that has become a
feature of our economy is going to become more obvious. That will bring
political consequences as well.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="yXYr6LwnLzSwWEkD+EBbCg==cb7WFVw20EZ6bj6o7wbEW+m4ovU8LiTOGuvV3rcyTJFG42zYVwSMkfwxWhno+tyYWnq"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="mAUcpnJ8kHP0meftNjYH+w==cb7ZGcwNJ4KtrYMhJcubdEuUrs7oVoUHa8D5IRew+YkR++pRxEPdOX0Go+Grcs20vSb"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
