---
title: "About Last Night"
date: "2024-01-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31429"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31429"
---

In the old days, people used to preserve food by “putting it up” in
various ways, which meant storing it in a way that prevented spoiling.
It also meant storing it in such a way that rats and mice could not get
to it. In modern times homeowners make sure their house is safe from
mice and squirrels. In both cases, there is a lot of time to think about
the strategy of rodents. This is the same sort of thinking we must use
when looking at the results of the Iowa caucuses last night.

None of the players in the drama were operating entirely on the level.
Trump was the big winner; however, his game is not about the
conventional winning of delegates, but of outflanking the lawfare
system. The bigger the wins, the more difficult it will be for the
system to remove him. At least that is the thinking. He assumes, perhaps
foolishly, that a runaway win in the primaries will force the party to
abandon its scheme to remove him from the ballot and appoint someone as
the nominee.

Similarly, the minor candidates were using the six-month run up to this
event for reasons that had nothing to do with winning. Christie ran to
earn some good will from the party by saying mean things about Trump in
the debates. Hutchinson ran so they will mention it in his obituary.
Ramaswamy is playing the long game, hoping to become the heir to Trump.
He is hoping to be the burnt orange version of Charlie Kirk so he can
run in the future or have a media career.

These sorts of rodents scurry around every presidential primary, but we
have some unusual vermin this time. Nikki Haley is running as a standard
issue regime Democrat in the Republican primary. The base assumptions of
her campaign are that Trump will be removed from the ticket and the
party is ready to throw in the towel and merge with the Democrats like
you see in most Democrat states. In those states, the Republicans run
lighter versions of the Democrats in statewide elections.

What she hoped for in Iowa was a clear second place finish. This would
have knocked DeSantis out of the race. She would then be the sole
anti-Trump option for the next few months, establishing herself as the
logical alternative for when the party removes Trump from the ballot.
Instead, she came in third place, with her support coming mostly from
Democrats crossing over to vote for the most virulent anti-Trump option.
She was close enough to DeSantis, however, to stay in the race.

Her strategy is to look for a big night in New Hampshire next week. The
way to look at this New Hampshire primary is as a general election. It
is an open primary so anyone can vote on the Republican side. The
Democrats and Republicans have been running massive get out the vote
drives in order to have as many far left crackpots from Massachusetts
take a GOP ballot. That is another thing about the state. People from
Massachusetts regularly drive over and vote in the primary.

DeSantis has all but abandoned New Hampshire, as in a general election
style format there is no room for a candidate trying to stake out the
middle ground. Instead, he is now focused on South Carolina and Nevada.
He has no chance to win either contest, but his people think he can beat
Haley in both. If he bests her in her own state, then he can argue that
he is the better choice for when Trump is removed. Currently he is
behind Haley by a factor of four in South Carolina.

The more likely path for DeSantis is to do well enough in South Carolina
to argue that Haley is unelectable and then conserve money to run a
minimum campaign into Super Tuesday when things get interesting on the
lawfare side. It is the longest of longshots, but it is what he has at
the moment. The party and its financiers prefer Haley as their Trump
alternative and Trump voters have come to despise DeSantis. That leaves
him with few voters to collect in these primaries.

Of course, one of the biggest rats gnawing away at things is the media.
Clearly, the word has gone forth that they are to invest in Nikki Haley.
The reason they called the race so soon was so the campaigns could have
a coping strategy and therefore a narrative to use in the media. This
will help Haley as she can plausibly claim that she barely lost to
DeSantis due to the early call. She did win one county, which is
something DeSantis did not accomplish.

Through the media, we can see that the regime has determined that Haley
is a good replacement for Biden, even if she is in the wrong party. In a
way, they are trying to engineer the primary into a version of Hillary
versus Trump in 2016. This may be why Haley is running around praising
Hillary Clinton. This is the narrative framing that the regime is
conjuring, so Haley is leaning into it. After all, from her perspective,
the real nominating process is in Washington.

The biggest rat in the room is the regime. It is an open secret that
they want Trump removed from the ballot, but even a regime as evil and
sterile as this one has some fear of the peasant revolt. If Trump is
plowing through these primaries and people are wise to Haley being a
Democrat catspaw, executing their scheme could turn out to be their
Samson option, so there may be some hesitance in some circles. Last
night’s result was another setback in their scheme.

Much will depend on what happens in the courts. The first shoe to drop
will be the 14th amendment case. The court has agreed to take this on an
expedited basis, which means a decision may come in February. If the
court comes down hard in favor of Trump, which is a possibility, then it
could signal to the rest of the legal system that lawfare will face an
uphill battle. If the court is open to the claim, then it will be read
by the lower court judges that they can do their worst.

All of the study of rat behavior obscures the fact that the only reason
any of this is happening is Trump dared to speak for normal white people
in 2016. Whites are about seventy percent of the voters right now.
Twenty percent of them are insane, leaving about half the voters with no
representation in the system. The Democrats explicitly hate these
voters, and the Republicans implicitly hate them. Elections are about
who gets to spit in these people’s faces first.

That is the subtext of this election. The regime is debating with itself
whether now is the time to close the door entirely on the white voter.
They believe the time is near when national elections will be like we
see in Democrat controlled states. There is a permanent majority called
Democrats, a ceremonial opposition called Republican and the goal is to
prevent the majority of citizens from getting any say. The results last
night suggest they still have some work to do.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="iuZ9Kw85Bpq5HU10xE+Emw==cb7rfixHZf/0C6FrixIgn5yag+ffq25qlDIp74V4mqa8H/VnFdrWD+FvqMwzfslFcV9"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Jr4Yas9YSoxR9TQEIVARVw==cb7BaebOmpjXMBOqPQMWEnDphl240ho5y4xHQd0I1bPXxAM7xGJDojesmmdJwQYLlPX"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
