---
title: "Trump The Elephant"
date: "2024-05-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-05-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32089"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32089"
---

Mary was a five-ton Asian elephant that performed at a circus, until she
went berserk and killed one of her handlers. For some reason, the
otherwise gentle beast attacked the handler on his second day of work.
She picked him up with her trunk, hurled him against a wall and then
stepped on his head. The circus owner decided that the right thing to do
was to hold a public execution of the elephant for the crime of having
murdered the elephant handler. The elephant was then hanged.

This strange story happened in 1916 in rural Tennessee, and it is a good
way to think about what is about to happen in a New York City courtroom.
This week the jury will get the Trump case with instructions by the
judge to convict. This trial and the behavior of the people running it
is like the execution of a circus elephant. It is about vengeance,
rather than justice. The circus owner hanged Mary the elephant to
satisfy the lust for vengeance and the conviction of Trump is for the
same purpose.

The trial of Trump has nothing to do with the law. He paid a lawyer to
make a problem go away, which happens all the time in America. The claim
here is that it was booked incorrectly by his accounting department. The
trial was never about the alleged accounting error. It was an excuse to
humiliate a man that the judge, the prosecutors, the media and most
likely the jury think deserves to be punished just as the locals thought
Mary the elephant needed to be punished.

There have always been two sides to punishment. The one we like to think
is our motivation is side that seeks to discourage future bad behavior.
We want the criminal punished so he and others will not commit future
crimes. That is a pleasant thought, but in reality, most of the time
punishment is about vengeance. The person who harmed us and is causing
harm is what the masses detest the most. Low morality revolves around
those things that harm people, society, and our beliefs.

Ironically, this is why the “best” people have relished the seedy
details of this trial and now prepare to celebrate the guilty verdict.
Joe Biden is set to give an Oval Office speech once the verdict is read.
The reason for this is the managerial class has the morality of a
servant, despite their control of the institutions of power. They look
at Trump as someone who harmed them, their system of rule and their
beliefs, so as far as they are concerned, he is evil and must be
punished.

The Trump phenomenon has provided an interesting insight into the
psychology of the managerial elite. Despite their pretensions and their
control of the institutions, they are still motivated by a low form of
morality. That starts with what the weak always fear, which is harm done
to them by those with power. Theirs is the slave morality which is
rooted in paranoia, distrust, and fear. Being a good person, therefore,
means not causing those reactions among the servant class.

It makes sense as the managerial elite are not powerful in the
convention way in which we think of power in a society. They are the
product of a system that empowers the servant of the owner, rather than
their own accomplishments. You rise in this system by pleasing those
above you and managing your horizontal relations. No can ever reach a
place of independence within the system as the system is built upon
interlocking relationships within the institutions.

This is the difference between an owner and a manager. The CEO of a
company is not truly powerful because he must answer to the owners. The
power he wields is on behalf of the people who granted him that power.
Those people have power due to their own deeds, so their source of power
is internal rather than external. Further, that CEO must always fear
being replaced by someone below him. The manager must always be paranoid
and fearful of everyone around him.

Trump, of course, is not a product of the managerial system. He is in
many respects the abnegation of that system. Rather than getting rich
and famous through a system of interlocking dependencies, he got rich
building big, complicated buildings and famous by being good on
television. Trump, for all his faults, is his own man and this is the
not just the opposite of managerial man, it is the nullification of him.
It is the existence of Trump that terrifies the managerial class, not
his ideas.

This is the other cause for managerial rage over Trump. He has choices
because his power is internal. He did not have to run in 2016 and he
does not have to run in 2024, but he chose to for his own reasons.
Everyone involved in the case against Trump depends to a great degree on
the decisions of others. They have bosses or they have a career that
comes with normative demands. The judge has to act in a certain way in
order to remain in good standing.

That is a key difference between the owner and the manager. The owner
can separate himself from the manager, but the manager can never
separate from the owner without losing all of his status. The owner
makes choices based on what he thinks is best, while the manager makes
choices based on that fear of losing his position. The reason the slave
resents the master is the same reason the manager resents the owner. It
is why the managerial class despises Trump.

There is a related motivation here. The managerial class does not just
see themselves as functionaries managing the system. They see themselves
as something like a priestly class that dictates the happiness of the
people. This is especially true in the media which has the greatest
loathing for Trump and his fans. These are people whose power rests
solely on dictating what is morally right and wrong. They sit in the
judgment of everyone, even the truly powerful.

The reason for this is the power of priestly class rests on their
framing of good and evil, which always places them on the side of the
good. They prove this by pretending to live the purest of lives
according to the morality they impose. Note how our managerial elite is
always preaching about things like the climate, race, our democracy, and
other parts of the progressive catechism. Our managerial class is the
clergy, and the elites see themselves as the high priests.

There is no one who enjoys vengeance more than the priest. The suffering
of the wicked is the greatest joy to the truly righteous. For the
managerial class, punishing those who transgress and seeing them suffer
is their reward. It is why the media love ruining people. It makes them
feel like Aquinas relishing the image of the damned writhing in the pits
of hell. This is why this case matters so much. The managerial priests
will get to see a wicked man suffer.

This returns us to Mary the elephant. The people who wanted to see the
elephant hanged were not demanding it for practical reasons. They were
weak people who lived in fear and the elephant came to represent that
fear. Killing the animal by public hanging was an act of piety. It
represented the triumph of their sense of justice, which is always
expressed as vengeance by those who see themselves as weak. They killed
the elephant as an act of revenge.

That is the point of this trial. The managerial class wants revenge on
Trump for violating their taboos and holding a mirror up to their
system. Vengeance is the product of revenge and revenge is the result of
resentment. The managerial class resents men like Trump as a part of
their organizing ethos. By running for president, he became the slave
owner who came down to party with the slaves in the slave quarters. His
actions remind them of their status as slaves.

In the end, that is the point of the Trump phenomenon. Despite his
populist rhetoric, Trump is an aristocrat of the old sort. He is a
self-made man. The question he poses is will we and can we be ruled by
the servants of aristocrats or will they fail and be replaced by the
natural aristocracy. Can you have a society ruled by people controlled
by resentment for the natural elite? That is the question Trump poses.
Whether they hang him or not, the question must be answered.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="qc2iGkTj27+CbGm9Qbl1fA==cb7KXSYoW1LcK0R2YEu/TNx6buvRAZjCRzkuAjVyae6MEAOg4+YRB//9cndL0H+Oxz+"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="XG7cPI5TQeRsNVd30ekFFQ==cb7pH+QaRdzWjTeIeODY7+k2YrTC7IoiceQrDK0i2N8JCcCaC8bjM6YvskTevai1lTp"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
