---
title: "Digital Man"
date: "2024-05-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-05-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32043"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32043"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door is a post about the farcical nature of
the young online right, a post about the looming summer of hate that is
upon us and the Sunday podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since the dawn of the digital age there has been commentary about the
impact the digital age will have on society. Mostly it comes from how we
will do things as technology seeps into every nook and cranny of life.
Little attention has been paid to who will be controlling things. It has
always been assumed that the social structures and selection pressures
within them will remain the same, so the new technology will simply be a
new tool for the old ruling class.

In the most general sense this is clearly not true. The oligarchs that
rose up out of Silicon Valley are a different breed of oligarch from
those who rose up in the last decades of the industrial revolution. The
latter were the product of an American empire on the rise while the
former were the product of an empire at its peak. The industrial age
oligarchs were a part of creating the American empire while the tech
oligarchs were taking advantage of an existing empire.

Putting aside the nature of the new oligarchs, the nature of the
managerial class that actually runs the empire has changed as well. The
type of person who slithers his way up into senior positions is
different from the old managerial elite. The top officials in government
a generation ago, for example, were the product of different selection
pressures than those of today. A generation ago, deeds still counted for
something in the competition for status within the meritocracy.

Look around at the people running foreign policy now and you cannot help
but notice that they are not exceptional at anything. It is one of the
things that makes a guy like John Mearsheimer jump off the screen in the
geopolitical debate. In addition to having been right about most things
over the last twenty years, he is an immensely talented, intelligent,
and confident man. By comparison, Anthony Blinken and Victoria Nuland
come off as dull and confused.

As technology has changed society, the selection pressure for the
managerial elite has also changed. The legacy pressures that produced a
guy like Mearsheimer have been replaced with new mechanisms that produce
men like Blinken. These pressures start much further down the
development cycle than the institutions. It reflects the changes in the
culture brought about by technology. All along the way, technology plays
a role in how men acquire status within the social system.

A simple way to think about how this works may be to think about the
broad categories of young males that existed in the analog age versus
the digital age. The three buckets for young males were the gymnasium,
the library, and the playground. The first was for the jocks who were
attracted to structure and competition. The second was for the bookish
who were attracted to learning and knowledge. The final category was for
the typical young male who generally like socializing.

In the analog age, the managerial elite drew from the gymnasium and the
library, the doers, and the thinkers. The American empire was the
product of men who produced new ideas and those who found a way to make
those ideas into reality. The oligarchs who rose up in the industrial
age used their wealth to underwrite the scholarly and cultural side of
the house. Libraries, universities, and cultural centers naturally
attracted investment from the new oligarchs.

The digital age changed how young males live and as a result it changed
how the social systems selected for talented young males. That
playground group suddenly had new toys to use in their socialization.
Instead of kicking a ball around, they participated in highly structured
and highly complex digital gameplay. Instead of sorting social standing
on the playground, it was done in the virtual world of gaming, online
chat rooms and social media. Most important, these became valuable
skills.

Look around at the public square and the biggest influencers are not old
smart guys or highly accomplished guys, but young guys raised online.
None of them were jocks or even played sports. Many have no
accomplishments at all in the meat space. They are not experts in a
cognitive field. On the other hand, they are not the basement dwelling
weirdos their critics claim. They enjoy competition, just the online
version. They know things that are important to success online.

The new generation of social influencers are an extreme example of a
process that has been going on since the dawn of the microprocessor
revolution. Technology changed the value relationship between these
three male roles. The skills useful on the playground, now the virtual
playground, have become more important than the skills acquired in the
gymnasium or the library. The critics in the 1970’s were correct when
they said it was the nerds who would eventually rule.

Now, some will say it is the <a
href="https://www.firstthings.com/web-exclusives/2023/02/what-is-the-longhouse"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">longhouse</a>, the feminization of
society that is the root of this transformation, but it looks more like
it was technology that made the longhouse possible by changing the
selection pressure away from knowledge and deeds to the social skills of
the digital space. Because so much of what makes up digital society is
useful only because we pretend it is so, it means it is not subjected to
the crucible of practical necessity, so convincing everyone it matters
is what counts.

Social media is a great example of something that people think is
important only because everyone they know thinks it is important.
Imagine you refuse to go on these platforms and just live your life in
meat space. Then someone starts a viral campaign against you on Twitter.
What happens to you? Nothing happens because you will remain blissfully
unaware of it. In other words, Twitter matters to the people on Twitter
because they pretend it matters.

From childhood on up, the skills that are the most useful in the digital
world are not those acquired in the library or the gymnasium. It is the
weird, androgynous social skills learned in the digital playground.
These define teenage social status and then professional status. Now we
are seeing them define managerial class status structures, including the
managerial elite. What powers the longhouse is the microprocessor that
changed the people in the longhouse.

Not only are the skills from the gymnasium and the library falling in
status, but the playground skills have changed as well. The digital
playground is not like the analog playground where you can get punched
in the nose for violating the rules or challenging the wrong guy. On the
digital playground your character dies and you respawn at a lower level
or maybe you have to create a new character. There is never any real
consequence to failure on the digital playground.

This is where feminization comes into the discussion. It has been
assumed that the feminization of society is the product of the feminist
movement, the explosion of women in the workplace or the number of
single mother households. In other words, generations of men raised *by*
women made men soft. In reality, it is at least one and maybe two
generations of men socialized *like* girls on the digital playground
that has made the longhouse a natural home for the new man.

In fairness, not all males have been raised on the digital playground.
Young men still play organized sports and they still read books. The
real playground still exists where young boys learn how to be young men.
Elite culture, however, no longer selects for the traits learned in
these areas. Instead, it is the traits acquired on the digital
playground that offer the pathway to the higher reaches. By the
standards of the digital age, Nick Fuentes is the quintessential digital
man.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="cJh+Dojk9E9Pl/OWk1P9nw==cb7JxYa4S70z94iBI39wLzyGiF2HQk1r9hs2Kx6sAIoBzgc3CojqORDZkrz7wScxCAa"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ME16lL8ABlAbx3sgnU3e7A==cb7CeLFe44NeTGwNO74+vPzQ4Z3bN2NYAuXB2orsDrRRtkZ1sRudvoN8IidDu/oExP1"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
