---
title: "Radio Derb October 18 2024"
date: "2024-10-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-10-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32901"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32901"
---

[<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />](https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg)

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m57s Thank you, Columbus!
-   08m45s Kamala’s Fox interview
-   18m59s Bring on the triumvirate!
-   26m15s Skeptical on Kamala’s Glock
-   28m39s Anarcho-tyranny, U.K.
-   31m35s Anarcho-tyranny, U.S.A.
-   34m13s Triggered by Chaucer
-   35m54s Signoff

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/62421436/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! That was
Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 2* in a big band arrangement, and this is
of course your intractably genial host John Derbyshire with thoughts on
the passing scene.

Two weeks this coming Tuesday is Election Day, if Comrade Merrick
Garland doesn’t find a way to cancel it — don’t think he’s not trying.
What are the prospects? I have no idea, but I’ll cover some relevant
events.

First, though, my weekly reminder that you can help support my efforts
here via snail mail or PayPal, relevant address and link
at [johnderbyshire.com](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/), or using Zelle
direct to my bank, or with a *tax-deductible* donation by a check
earmarked with my name and mailed to: The VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box
211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759. Thank you for your
help.<span id="more-32901"></span>

**02 — Thank you, Columbus!**     Monday, October 14th, as well as being
the 958th anniversary of the [Battle of
Hastings](https://www.english-heritage.org.uk/visit/places/1066-battle-of-hastings-abbey-and-battlefield/history-and-stories/what-happened-battle-hastings/),
was Columbus Day. Our nation’s Vice President marked the occasion in her
own inimitable way.

\[[*Clip*](https://www.foxnews.com/video/6363245047112):  It is an honor
of course to be with you this week, as we celebrate Indigenous Peoples
Day, as we speak *truth* about our nation’s history.

Since 1934, every October, the United States has recognized the voyage
of the European explorers who first landed on the shores of the
Americas. But that is not the whole story. That has *never* been the
whole story.

Those explorers ushered in a wave of devastation for tribal nations,
perpetrating violence, stealing land, and spreading disease. We must not
shy away from this shameful past; and we must shed light on it, and do
everything we can to address the impact of the past on native
communities today.\]

That’s the charge sheet drawn up by our enlightened ruling class against
our European ancestors: violence, stealing land, and spreading disease.

Where violence and the stealing of land are concerned, the pre-Columbian
inhabitants of the Americas would have been perfectly well acquainted
with both. They were far more common before the conquest than after, as
of course were slavery, cannibalism, and mass human sacrifice.

The real horror that the Conquest brought with it was disease. The death
toll was appalling. I don’t have a large-scale reference for the
Caribbean islands where Columbus did most of his exploring, but here’s a
quote from Charles Mann’s
book [*1491*](https://www.amazon.com/1491-Revelations-Americas-Before-Columbus/dp/1400032059/ref=tmm_pap_swatch_0) about
Hernán Cortés in Mexico twenty years later. Quote:

Berkeley researchers Cook and Borah spent decades reconstructing the
population of \[central Mexico\] in the wake of the Spanish conquest. By
combining colonial-era data from many sources, the two men estimated
that the number of people in the region fell from 25.2 million in 1518,
just before Cortés arrived, to about 700,000 in 1620 — a 97 percent drop
in little more than a century.

End quote.

This wasn’t the result of any malice on the part of the conquistadors;
the Mexicans just had no resistance to European diseases; and disease
transmission was anyway not well understood. As Charles Mann points out,
the conquistadors would have preferred for the native peoples to have
survived in their original numbers so they could be used for forced
labor. It was the mass die-off of natives that pushed the Spaniards to
import slaves from Africa.

So yes, the conquest was a catastrophe, but not one that anyone willed,
certainly not something that anyone alive today should feel shame for,
as Kamala Harris claims we should. The Spaniards weren’t wilfully doing
anything they didn’t do back home in Spain, nor anything the natives
hadn’t been doing to each other for centuries.

It worked both ways, too. The natives seem to have had some diseases of
their own to pass on to the Europeans. Coming home from his second
expedition, Columbus told his diary that many of the Europeans had
fallen ill from an undisclosed malady. A different historian, Suzanne
Austin Alchon, reports
that, [quote](https://www.google.com/books/edition/A_Pest_in_the_Land/YiHHnV08ebkC):
“By the end of 1494, disease and famine had claimed two-thirds of the
Spanish settlers.” End quote.

And taking the long historical view, the arrival of Columbus was a great
blessing to the people of the New World. Left to themselves I suppose
they would eventually have attained civilized modernity — constitutional
government and rule of law *without* slavery, cannibalism, and human
sacrifice. It would have taken them three or four thousand years,
though, as it took us. Columbus and the settlers who followed him spared
them all that — started them off on a short-cut route to modernity.

Of course no such complicated thoughts ever crossed the shallow mind of
Kamala Harris. If they had, she would have quickly dismissed them as
heretical. The point of her Columbus Day speech was to signal to her
admirers that she, like them, is on the side of the oppressed against
the oppressors; and that the oppressors here, as everywhere, are white
European males like Christopher Columbus.

**03 — Kamala’s Fox interview**.     Forward to Wednesday, when Kamala
Harris submitted herself to a half-hour interview with Bret Baier
of *Fox News*.

What the open-minded viewer hopes for from such an interview is some
outline view as to what policies the candidate would promote if elected.
In that respect the Vice President was deeply uninformative.

The interview actually lasted 26 minutes and 44 seconds. Working
from [the published
transcript](https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/kamala-harris-interview-on-fox-news) I
broke it down time-wise into the nearest percentages as follows:

-   40 percent:  Immigration.
-   5 percent:  Taxpayer-funded sex changes for prisoners and illegal
    aliens awaiting deportation.
-   7 percent:  The economy.
-   16 percent:  “Turning the page” — how would Harris be different from
    Biden?
-   11 percent:  Why do so many Americans support Trump?
-   6 percent:  Biden’s mental capacity.
-   12 percent:  Foreign threats to the U.S.A.
-   3 percent:  Wrap-up

Harris had nothing original or interesting to say on any of these
topics. Much the longest one, taking up the first 40 percent of the
interview, was about immigration.

Harris gave us the only lines she has on this: that we have, quote, “a
broken immigration system” — dear God, for how many decades have I been
hearing that? And that, quote, “Congress ultimately is the only place
that that’s going to get fixed,” end quote. And that the Biden-Harris
administration strove mightily — from Day One! — to get laws passed in
Congress to fix that “broken immigration system.” But that evil Donald
Trump used all his power and might to thwart the passing of those
righteous laws.

A moment’s reflection shows what nonsense that is.

One:  The Trump administration clearly had better control over illegal
immigration than Biden-Harris; yet they did so without new laws, simply
by the President exerting his constitutional powers through executive
orders. Joe Biden — in his first week, although not precisely on Day
One — annulled those orders. The colossal inflow of illegal aliens
followed.

Two:  That Day One bill that Biden-Harris sent to Congress in January
2021, the U.S. Citizenship Act would have legalized illegal aliens and
put them on an eight-year path to citizenship, increased
the *legal* immigration numbers to the detriment of U.S. tech
workers, [expanded chain
migration](https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2022/01/11/key-facts-about-u-s-immigration-policies-and-bidens-proposed-changes/) and
the absurd “diversity visa lottery,” and so on. No-one acquainted with
the defects of our current system could support it.

Three:  The administration’s second attempt at legislation, last year’s
Lankford-Schumer bill, was more of the same. I gave you the essentials
on that bill two podcasts ago with a link to the Center for Immigration
Studies’ very thorough debunking of it. My bottom-line comment on
that, [quote from
myself](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-10-04.html#03):

Just the name of the Bill tells you how bogus it is. As if Chuck Schumer
would put his name to anything that might hinder the Great Replacement!

End quote.

Four:  What happened to the Lankford-Schumer bill, according to Harris,
was that, quote:

Donald Trump learned about that bill and told them to kill it because he
preferred to run on a problem instead of fixing a problem.

End quote.

“Told them to kill it”? Told *who*? Congressional Republicans? What,
they all snap to attention and click their heels when they get a phone
call from Trump? I wouldn’t personally mind very much if that were so,
but … it ain’t. Ask any Congress-watcher. In any case, as Bret Baier
kept trying to point out, six Democrat congresscritters voted against
the Lankford-Schumer bill.

Points One, Two, Three, and Four aside, the subject
of *legal* immigration barely got a mention. Remember the fuss in the
run-up to the 2016 election about big corporations [laying off citizen
workers](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/26/us/lawsuit-claims-disney-colluded-to-replace-us-workers-with-immigrants.html) in
mid-level technical jobs in order to replace them with cheaper
foreigners on guest-worker visas?

Remember that? Remember how the citizens had to train their cheaper
foreign replacements or else lose their severance packages? Remember how
it was all pushed by big “body shop” recruitment firms and the
immigration lawyers’ lobby,with congresscritters all bought and paid
for? Remember that stuff?

[It’s still going
on](https://instituteforsoundpublicpolicy.org/public-policy-nonprofit-releases-report-on-chips-and-science-act-cautions-against-hiring-guest-workers-to-fill-jobs-2024/),
although somewhat more discreetly. Wait, though: Didn’t the Trump
administration put the kibosh on that nasty little racket? No, [they did
nothing](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-10-18.html).
I tell ya, the immigration issue is a hard field to plow.

Bottom line on the Fox interview: Why should you vote for Kamala Harris?
Because Donald Trump is a bad, bad man! I counted twenty-four mentions
of Trump by Harris in the 26 minutes, 44 seconds of the interview.
That’s one mention every 66.8 seconds, close to one per minute. Trump is
Harris’s main issue — really, her only issue.

Harris is a seriously stupid person who has never, to the best of my
recollection, ever said anything interesting at all. I can make an
excuse for her, though — no, really, an honest excuse.

In a way, the kind of dumb show she put on in this interview is inherent
in the position of any Vice President running for President when things
aren’t going well for the country. Things aren’t going well? Then the
current administration must be at fault. But you are a key figure in the
administration!

You can’t very well blame yourself. You *could* blame the President; but
that wouldn’t go over well in a national culture where loyalty is
counted a virtue. So, just keep heaping blame on the other candidate,
even when it makes no sense to do so.

It’s all a bit unfair. For all Kamala Harris’s proud talk about being
“the last person in the room” when key decisions are made, the U.S. Vice
President has very little power or authority.

If things aren’t going well for the country, that most likely *is* the
President’s fault — the more plainly so when, as in the case of Harris,
the Vice President seems to have spent her time in office doing
absolutely nothing at all.

**04 — Bring on the triumvirate!**.

Where the office of Vice President is concerned, Kamala Harris is shoddy
goods, but she looks all the shoddier by comparison with J.D. Vance,
Donald Trump’s running mate.

That’s partly an age thing: Harris will turn sixty this weekend — the
age at which, in Huxley’s *Brave New World*, citizens are put to sleep —
while Vance only just turned forty.

Still, the age gap is a minor issue by comparison with the yawning gulfs
that separate the Vice President from the would-be Vice President in
intellect and accomplishment.

By way of illustrating that, here’s a sound clip from an appearance by
J.D. Vance on the *Fox and Friends* show Wednesday.

\[[*Clip at 8m53s
in*](https://www.foxnews.com/media/jd-vance-calls-out-kamala-harris-bizarre-answers-bret-baier-something-pathological-going-on): 
She is of course the deciding vote on trillions of dollars of Joe
Biden’s spending. She bragged about being the last person in the room
when major decisions were made.

But we have to sort of step back and appreciate there is something
pathological going on here. She has been in power for three and a half
years, and when asked about how she would be different she goes and
talks about Donald Trump. And when, y’know, when it’s pointed out,
“Well, you’ve actually been in office for three and a half years,” she
says, “Well, you know, he’s been *talking* about politics for ten
years.”

What is it in the mind of this person that can’t just acknowledge that
she has been in power for three and a half years and bears some
responsibility as the sitting Vice President for the condition that the
country is in?

Now, she could do any number of things. She could actually say, “Well, I
think that things are a little bit better than you’re giving me credit
for.” Or she could say, “Well, this wasn’t totally my fault.” Instead
she pretends that Donald Trump bears the responsibility for problems
that happened while she was the sitting Vice President.

She does that about the border, she does that about the affordability of
groceries, she does that about the chaos on the world stage, … I’ve
never seen a person who’s running for President as the sitting Vice
President who pretends that she has nothing to do with the condition of
the country she’s been governing.\]

Again, I’d give Kamala Harris a *very* small pass on account of the
dilemma I mentioned in the previous segment, the dilemma faced by any
sitting Vice President running for President. Could she really say:
“Well, this wasn’t totally my fault”? Asking around among friends,
opinions differ.

What that sound clip makes clear, though, is a difference
in *presentation*. It’s clear that Vance is a smart and articulate guy,
just as it’s clear from Harris’s appearances that she is a dumb and
inarticulate gal. And no, I don’t at all mind women in high political
office. Drop by some time, I’ll show you my Margaret Thatcher
commemorative coffee mug.

I did not actually watch the Bret Baier interview on Wednesday. I was
out of the house, attending a dinner in Manhattan. I’ve culled my
information about the interview from the published transcript and some
online video clips.

Guest of honor at that dinner in Manhattan was Vivek Ramaswamy, who gave
a fine speech. Watching him and listening to him, J.D. Vance came to
mind. That wasn’t because of any particular physical or oratorical
similarity, but just the happy reflection that our side — the side of
reason, calm good sense, and patriotism — includes two such smart,
accomplished, and eloquent guys.

And both of them *young*! — Well, young by political standards:
Ramaswamy is 39, Vance is 40. Musing about it on the Long Island
Railroad going home, Elon Musk came to mind, too. Musk is older — he’s
53 — but he belongs with the other two where smarts and accomplishments
are concerned.

How does the proverb go? “Forty is the old age of youth; fifty is the
youth of old age.” So Musk is young in that proverbial sense, at any
rate. He certainly *presents* as young: agile and quick-witted.

Musing thus as the landscape of Nassau County flickered past the window
of my train, I wandered off into a fantasy centered on the word
“triumvirate.” If you missed classical history classes in school, the
triumvirate was a political arrangement in first-century-B.C. ancient
Rome when supreme power over the Republic was shared by three men. This
was when the Roman Republic was on its last legs, just before it gave
way to Empire.

There were actually two triumvirates, one right after the other. For
good fictional accounts of both I recommend [Alfred
Duggan](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Considerations/duggan.html)‘s
novels *Winter Quarters* for the first triumvirate, *Three’s
Company* for the second.

Is our republic on its last legs before giving way to an Emperor? Should
we adjust our Constitution to allow for a triumvirate? If we do so any
time soon, those would be my three candidates to be members of the
triumvirate: Elon Musk, J.D. Vance, and Vivek Ramaswamy.

**05 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  Asked in her *60 Minutes* interview whether she owned a
handgun, Kamala Harris replied cheerfully that yes, [she owns a
Glock](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/09/style/kamala-harris-glock-guns.html).

That seemed a bit fishy to some listeners. For one thing Harris, who is
as far out on the progressive left as it’s possible to be, has
campaigned against private ownership of handguns.

For another, handgun owners are usually more specific when asked about
their guns. If you ask me I’ll tell you that, yes, I own a SIG Sauer
P239 and a Colt Detective Special.

So is Kamala’s Glock a Glock 17 or a Glock 19, or something else?

And for another, it’s hard to imagine Kamala Harris operating a handgun.
I wouldn’t want to be anywhere within a quarter mile of *that*.

So was she just lying for effect? It seems to me her claim should be
easy to verify. She lives in Los Angeles, right? And presumably spends a
lot of time in Washington, D.C. Some diligent reporter could easily
check around the relevant neighborhoods for shooting ranges that
accommodate handguns to find out if anyone remembers seeing her
shooting.

Or, if she has a personal shooting range in her basement, check with
neighbors to find out if anyone’s heard her practicing.

*Or* can’t we find a mole in the California Pistol Licensing Bureau, or
whatever they call it over there, to tell us whether she’s licensed?

Perhaps someone did these checks and I just missed it. Or perhaps
diligent reporters have gone the way of [the dodo
bird](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/20/science/archaeology-dodo-extinction.html).

*Item*:  It is just thirty years since the late Samuel Francis coined
the very useful term “anarcho-tyranny.” He defined it
thus, [quote](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/view/anarcho-tyranny-u-s-a/):

The combination of oppressive government power against the innocent and
the law-abiding and, simultaneously, a grotesque paralysis of the
ability or the will to use that power to carry out basic public duties
such as protection or public safety.

End quote.

Anarcho-tyranny has found its true home in the Mother Country. July 29th
this year three little girls aged six, seven, and nine were stabbed to
death by a lunatic in Southport, northwest England. Initial rumors said
the killer was one of the illegal aliens who’ve been flooding into
Britain the past few years.

It turned out this wasn’t so. [The killer was born in
Britain](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c6p2yrg3pvpo) to immigrant
parents from Rwanda. The utter failure of the British authorities to
curb mass illegal immigration has generated much anger, though.

Forty-one-year-old Lucy Connolly, hearing the rumors, blasted out
angrily on X, calling for mass deportations and saying that the hotels
being used to house illegal aliens should be set on fire. She quickly
regretted the tweet and deleted it, but not before it had been reported
to law enforcement.

Arrested and jailed on remand, this week [she was sentenced to 31 months
in
jail](https://ministryofinjustice.co.uk/his-honour-judge-melbourne-inman-kc/).
Ms Connolly had no previous convictions. She has two children; her
husband serves on a local County Council.

Meanwhile the percentage of crimes solved in England and Wales fell from
16 percent nine years ago to [less than six
percent](https://www.statista.com/statistics/1402586/crimes-solved-england-and-wales) last
year. Friends and relatives over there tell me it’s a waste of time to
call the police if your car is stolen or your house burgled. Frequently
heard, quote: “You’re lucky if they pick up the phone.”

*Item*:  In the matter of anarcho-tyranny the U.S.A. is pretty far along
that same road the Brits are travelling.

My *New York Post* this morning, October 18th, [ran a story on
drugstores
closing](https://nypost.com/2024/10/17/us-news/another-duane-reade-set-to-close-on-ues-as-nyc-pharmacies-grapple-with-crime-and-surviving-drug-store-is-robbed-about-once-an-hour/) because
of rampant shoplifting. One on Manhattan’s Upper East Side — quite a
tony area — told the local civic group they get robbed about once an
hour. An employee there told [another news
outlet](https://eastsidefeed.com/shopping/duane-reade-on-79th-and-second-avenue-is-closing/) that
criminals are, quote, “stealing more than we’re selling,” end quote.

The *Post* reports that the drugstore chain CVS will be closing ten
percent of its U.S. locations by the end of the year. Walgreen’s is
planning to close 1,200 stores; Rite Aid, 500 stores.

“Crime has definitely picked up” in the last five years, one of
the *Post’s* informants told them. Further quote: “Obviously it’s a
revolving door of justice, nobody spends any real time … and I think the
criminals have figured this out.” End quote.

While New York City cops are relaxing at the donut shop,
though, *federal* law enforcement is leaving no criminal stone unturned.
October 9th in Floyd, Va., 36-year-old John Paul Bordeaux was arrested
and has been charged. So, that same day, were 52-year-old Rebecca
Marshburn and 31-year-old Kelsie Marie Watkins, both in Wilmington, N.C.
So, the previous day, October 8th, was 49-year-old Michael T. Fagundes
in Costa Mesa, Ca.

What have these *federal* lawbreakers been charged with? Why with [being
at the U.S.
Capitol](https://www.npr.org/2021/02/09/965472049/the-capitol-siege-the-arrested-and-their-stories) on
January 6th 2021. Off with their heads!

*Item*:

Whan that Octobre with his shoures coole  
Sees cheery freshmen settling in to schoole,  
All swathed against the chilly autumn mornyngs,  
Than longen folk to put forth trigger warnyngs …

I beg your pardon. I flipped into Chaucer mode for a moment there ([not
for the first
time](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Spoofs/sacramentotales.html)).
I had just been reading this story from the October 13th London *Daily
Telegraph*. Headline: [The Canterbury Tales given trigger warning over
“expressions of Christian
faith”](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2024/10/13/canterbury-tales-trigger-warning-christian-faith-chaucer/).

Yes: the University of Nottingham over there has slapped the warning on
Chaucer’s *Canterbury Tales*. Why? Quote from the story:

A Freedom of Information request found that the university warned
students that the medieval literature contains expressions of Christian
faith as well as violence and mental illness.

End quote.

That’s not all Chaucer’s *Tales* contain. I shall know that the old
country is gone for good when I read that they have removed *The
Miller’s Tale* from college curriculums …

**06 — Signoff**.     That’s it, ladies and gents. Thank you as always
for your time and attention, your encouragement and support.

Two weeks to go, two weeks this coming Tuesday, when perhaps we shall be
spared the butcher’s axe. If we’re not, and things come to a
Constitutional crisis, I offer to the nation — free of charge — my
suggestion of a Musk-Vance-Ramaswamy triumvirate. You’re welcome!

To play us out, here’s an old favorite of mine from the great Mr. H.W.
Ledbetter. There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
