---
title: "Trumponomics 2.0"
date: "2024-11-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-11-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33010"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33010"
---

The next few weeks will bring a flurry of news regarding various names
for jobs in the next Trump White House. Some of it will be gaslighting
from people who just make things up for regime media. Some of it will
disappoint Trump supporters hoping to get something from their efforts
this time. One area that has gotten no coverage, but will be one of the
most important, is the economy. Trump appears determined to
fundamentally change how Washington controls the economy.

That is the first thing to understand. The United States is not a
free-market economy or even close to one. There are millions of lines of
regulatory code covering every aspect of economic activity. It is not
exactly a command economy and in no way a centrally planned one, but it
is a tightly controlled economy. Washington has its tentacles in every
nook and cranny, even the black markets. Therefore, a president’s view
on how to control the economy matters a great deal.

When it comes to economic policy, the placed to start is former Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Trump was a fan of Abenomics, in addition to
be on very good personal terms with him. Trump has often spoke highly of
what has come to be known as Abenomics. Reportedly, Trump has talked to
Scott Bessent about a position in the administration, maybe even
Treasury Secretary. Bessent is also a proponent of the “three arrows”
approach to the economy.

The “three arrows” term is how Shinzo Abe described his approach. One
arrow or prong was loose money. Get as much money into the economy as
quickly as possible, even if it creates inflation. The second arrow is
to direct that new money into areas of the economy that either need
revitalization or startup capital. If this means growing the budget,
then so be it. The third arrow is to encourage (compel) private
investment in the domestic economy over yield chasing.

Applied to the American economy, it probably means a blend of loose
money, the slashing of regulation and tariffs to direct investment into
the domestical economy, especially the supply chain and industrial base.
One obvious lesson of the Covid panic, one entirely ignored by
Washington, is complex supply chains, especially those flowing through
Asia, are highly fragile. The growing rift with China makes untangling
those supply chains even more important going forward.

Trump has made it clear that he wants to use tariffs to redirect
investment into the domestic economy. Another name turning up as a
possible addition to the Trump team is Robert Lighthizer, who is both a
China hawk and the architect of Trump’s trade policy in his first term.
It is important to note that the changes Trump ushered in were not
rolled back under Biden. Taken together, it is a clear sign that Trump
2.0 will be much more hawkish on the trade front.

Those familiar with the regulatory world remember the wild ride it was
in Trump’s first term as they went on a deregulation spree. Expect Trump
2.0 to be even more aggressive, especially on the environmental front.
His nominee for the EPA is Lee Zeldin, who the Gaia worshipers detest.
Trump made it clear with the announcement that his job will be to clear
the dense thicket of environmental regulations that make it hard to put
a shovel in the ground for any reason.

Trump 2.0 will be helped by the courts in this regard. This year the
Supreme Court ended what had been termed the Chevron deference. This was
the rule that said the courts should defer to the regulatory agencies
whenever there was ambiguity in the laws passed by Congress. Of course,
this meant that everything passed by Congress was as vague as possible,
to give total control to the agencies. This has been turned on its head
by the courts.

What we are likely to see is a three-pronged assault on the
administrative state in Trump’s second term. One prong will be the
aggressive slashing of regulations that we saw in Trump’s first term.
The second prong will be a flood of litigation aimed at the vagaries of
the enabling legislation. There are many cases in the system. The final
prong is an effort by Congress to clean up the language to both limit
the agencies, but also reassert oversight.

Where things get interesting is fiscal policy. Inflation remains an
issue, despite claims to the contrary, but the Fed is signaling cuts in
interest rates. Will Trump demand big new spending on infrastructure?
This would be one way to soak up some of the extra money being generated
by lower interest rates. Anyone who goes outside knows there is a
desperate need to rebuild the infrastructure. Go to an airport and you
are suddenly embarrassed to be an American.

All this stuff is boring and does not get the same attention you see
with some of the other stuff allegedly on Trump’s agenda. Catapulting
left-wing crazies into the sea provides a much bigger dopamine rush than
deregulation. On the other hand, Trumponomics is the most radical part
of his agenda. Those old enough to remember Ross Perot and Pat Buchanan
see the point. Trump is repudiating half a century of conservative
economic dogma.

The Trump economic agenda is not without its problems. In Washington,
every mortgage payment, college tuition bill, access to elite schools
and universities depends on nothing changing in Washington. Trump 1.0
was largely undone by his own party, who is as invested in the status
quo as the Democrats. The lawfare industrial complex is also gearing up
for round two against Trump. Maybe his team is ready this time, but even
if they are prepared, it will be a long slog.

The bigger question is if it will work. What Trump is proposing sounds a
lot like old fashioned liberal economics from the last century. Instead
of tax and spend it will be print and spend. The difference is the
deregulation and tariffs. The point of this approach is to redirect
investment back into the American economy and direct it to tangible
things like supply chains and manufacturing. It is the approach we saw
with growth economies last century.

Another thing he has on his side is the economic elites have come around
to this approach to the economy. Investors love cheap money and
deregulation, but Wall Street also sees it needs a replacement for Asia.
The days of getting rich from the China trade are gone. If the United
States replaces China as an investment option, they will get onboard
with it. As we saw with the election, it is always good when the rich
people are backing your play.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="NSsq4TuehDfNhrU2oeMurA==cb7TC+eb1sl6h/u5kFJyoVFpizJ9Eoaf9OSrx+bcBDlMTHB+8Bb00yLnNa8rGQYSJxc"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="gvwMVjEy55ddWPBiCvmIlg==cb7iuCkifBwlzW/4L5DA22oeuLSJu0D66HxXfie6dgjztinDQqZUa5pWebkbmefTOxk"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
