---
title: "Work Until You Die"
date: "2024-03-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31748"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31748"
---

There seems to be a secret plot to inject the idea of cutting Social
Security into the national debate for the looming presidential election.
This plot is among the slithering lizard people known as the
conservatives. It started with the oleaginous Ben Shapiro <a
href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/columnist/2024/03/13/ben-shapiro-retirement-trump-social-security-medicare-cuts/72947221007/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">demanding</a> that white people work
until they die. He then went to Twitter to gin up more talk among the
mouth breathers in favor of cutting Social Security. Now the Republican
Party is <a
href="https://news.bgov.com/bloomberg-government-news/republicans-call-for-retirement-age-hike-in-clash-with-biden"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">promoting</a> the idea in Congress.

It is an odd coincidence that once Trump secured the nomination, his
alleged allies started talking up an idea that has no constituency. No
one wants to throw their granny into the street, and no one wants to
throw their parents into the streets. More important, the tens of
millions of retired white people do not want to be thrown into the
streets, especially in the name of sending their last pennies to Israel.
It is the third rail of politics for a reason, so why are these reptiles
bringing it up now?

The most popular reason is they hope to slime Trump with this issue,
thus undermining his general election campaign. They assume, and
probably correctly, that the mass media will claim he wants to murder
your granny in the promised bloodbath this autumn, no matter what Trump
says about the subject. So far, Trump has mostly ignored it, only
mentioning the problems of fraud in Medicare. Fraud is a massive problem
with Medicare, but fraud is a defining feature of America now.

Another reason for this sudden interest in poisoning their election
chances is that idiots run the Republican Party. The reason the party
has been called “the stupid party” for generations is it is run by
stupid people. They are clever and scheming, necessary skills for
democratic politics, but they are not as cynical as the the other side.
As a result, Republican leaders are the forever Charlie Brown, sure that
this time the Democrats will let them kick the football.

Then there is the fact that the Republican Party and American
conservatism evolved in the 20th century as losers. The GOP’s natural
role is as the cleanup crew for the Democrats, who run around smashing
things. For their part, the so-called conservatives busy themselves
racing in front of speeding trains yelling “stop” while the rest boast
about how their principles forbid them from winning. Conservatism
evolved to be the consolation prize for the politically inept.

You can probably take a little bit from each column and produce a mix
that explains the sudden interest in snuffing out granny. There is
nothing about any of these possible answers that contradicts the others.
Ben Shapiro is a skeevy little hobbit man who hates Trump with the
intensity of a thousand suns, but he is also a mediocrity who has a
habit of stepping on rakes. There is a reason that his handlers make
sure to never expose him to adults during his public appearances.

There is another element to this and that is the desire of many people,
no doubt many people from the loser party, to get back to debating
issues. The United States does have real problems that could quickly
become catastrophic problems if they remain unaddressed by the political
class. For example, there is a pre-French Revolution vibe to the
government’s finances. This <a
href="https://chroniclesmagazine.org/recent-features/the-most-foreseeable-disaster-in-u-s-history/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> in Chronicles is a good
explainer and a good example of the desire to return to real issues.

Now, “experts” have been predicting doom over the national debt for
generations and doom is always twenty years off. It is like the collapse
of “fiat money” or affordable solar energy in that it is always twenty
years away. Unlike the other two, math says there is a limit to how much
debt the government can issue. At some point, the appetite for new debt
will decline as everyone will be holding as much debt as they need. At
that point, new debt comes with new, much higher costs to the
government.

As far as how to avoid this debt cliff, the only answer is the one
answer everyone agrees must never be debated. That answer is ending the
Global American Empire and returning to normalcy. That means reducing
the military budget by ninety percent, deporting the tens of millions of
freeloaders, and cracking enough rich people’s heads, maybe even lopping
off a few of them, to get the economic elites inline. None of that can
be debated, so they talk about killing your granny.

For the most part, Social Security runs reasonably well. The big
problem, as far as old people programs, is Medicare, which is riddled
with fraud, but Social Security is largely free of fraud and waste.
Suring up its finances during the great baby boomer retirement should
not be a great challenge. If life expectancy continues to decline, then
it will be a self-correcting problem. In other words, if you are worried
about the looming debt crisis, there are better places to look for
answers.

That is what really gives this topic the French Revolution vibe. A big
reason for the revolution was the gordian knot of royal finances. France
desperately needed financial reform, but the rich people opposed it
because they saw no profit in it. The Global American Empire faces the
same problem. All the best people agree that we face a looming financial
crisis, and they all agree that they will not sacrifice a hair on their
heads to avoid it. Instead, they think you should work until you die.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="NF6GKmjJYe5x5ClaRvKlYw==cb78RlQROBhwZ4xGmAJJ/J6Iasw7qDXr7ECPrstDMHQKU6VqdXimLOY1tCEFPdsvC9x"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="GLZ7k/COngSonjxcWq3Hyw==cb724d8QYS0xJRQxRwyzFlmykeSV7hOjsofznLvXvDxXADCf56BTTYtlsygynZoJRdA"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
