---
title: "Baseball"
date: "2024-08-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-08-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32507"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32507"
---

Watch an American baseball game and the thing you quickly notice,
especially if it has been a while since you bothered, is that the game
is riddled with interruptions to the point where it feels like more
stoppage than gameplay. Baseball was always a leisurely game that
evolved for a people who had long attention spans, so it is a poor fit
for the modern American with their low IQ’s and high time preference,
but it is also made unwatchable by the constant stoppages.

The league has tried to address the problem by speeding up the gameplay
with a pitch clock that gives pitchers 30 seconds between at-bats, 15
seconds between pitches with no one on base, and 20 seconds between
pitches with runners on base. According to major league baseball, this
has resulted in a 24-minute decrease in the total length of the game
compared to the 2022 season. The average length of a game is now two
hours and 40 minutes.

That is fine, but it does not change the fact that the number of breaks
in play has not changed much and is probably a little worse. The reason
for the breaks is the specialization in the game. The days of nine guys
playing nine guys are long gone, as now teams employ specialists who
enter the game at various points, which slows the game play down.
Specialization is the result of quantitative revolution that has
happened in all sports, but especially baseball.

Baseball used to be a game run by men who wanted to put on a show for
fans and build hometown pride. The owners of baseball teams were local
rich guys who not only wanted to make money off the game but took some
pride in their local community and wanted their team to win. They hired
people to run their teams who had played the game and presumably knew
what it took to win. Those guys found and developed players who had the
skills to play the game.

That started to change with the growth of advanced statistics. Baseball
was always a game of numbers, like batting average, earned run average
and other measures of a player’s success in his role. Advanced
statistics took that a step further and used quantitative measures to
predict the impact of players on winning games, based on measures like
on-base-percentage and wins above replacement. These new measures not
only determine rosters, but they also determine gameplay.

That is why we get so many breaks in the game. After every at bat, both
teams basically re-crunch the numbers to determine what they should do
next. That may mean pulling the pitcher who has been on a roll to this
point or pinch hitting for a guy who has had a monster game thus far. We
now have scenarios in which a pitcher is pulled from a game while
throwing a no-hitter. The numbers say he has reached his pitch limit,
and the reliever has a better chance against the rest of the lineup.

You can see how this works by looking at the
<a href="https://www.baseball-reference.com/teams/BAL/2024.shtml"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">roster</a> of the current best team in
baseball, the Baltimore Orioles, and the
<a href="https://www.baseball-reference.com/teams/BAL/1970.shtml"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">roster</a> of the 1970 Oriole team that
went on to win the World Series that year. The first thing you will note
is that the 1970 squad used a total of thirty-two players for the entire
season. The current year Orioles have already used fifty-four players
and will use many more once rosters expand in September. Baseball is now
a game of roster rotisserie.

Another thing you will note is that the best starting pitchers on the
current team will not reach 200-innings this year. Most likely, they
will rest their best pitcher down the stretch so he will finish the
regular season with around 175-innings. On the 1970s team, three
pitchers pitched 300-innings. More shocking is the fact that the 1970
pitching staff had sixty complete games, while the current staff has
none. Last year there were a total of 34 complete games in all of
baseball.

The stat guys will tell you that the use of advanced statistics makes
for a more competitive game by removing chance from the equation. People
with a soul will tell you that the stat guys should be sent to a labor
camp. No one watches any sporting event to see the stat guys show off
their latest number crunching. Sport is human drama with all of the
flaws that come with it. Removing the flaws inevitably removes the
humanity from it and you are left with robots playing robots

The reason everyone who was aware in 1988 remembers Kirk Gibson
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N4nwMDZYXTI" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">hitting</a> the homerun off Dennis Eckersley in the
World Series is because it is the thing every kid who played baseball
dreamed of doing. It is a scene every father taking his son to a game
hopes they will see.  The aging slugger called in to face off against
the game’s best closer in the deciding moment. The old man mustering
what little he has left to stroke one last home run to win the game.

If the modern stat head had been in charge, that moment never would have
happened because Gibson would not be on the team, much less sent up to
bat. Tommy Lasorda would not have been in the dugout to make the call.
Instead, the robot manager would have sent up a specialist whose only
role was to face Eckersley. Maybe the Dodgers win anyway, but no one
would remember it because there would be no reason to remember what in
the end was a statistical anomaly.

The reason that any of this matters is that baseball is a microcosm of
American life in that society, like baseball, is now run by people who
have no appreciation for the things that make life worth living.
Instead, they view people as mere economic units or perhaps items to
manipulate in the transactional world of managerialism. Society has been
drained of its authenticity and in its place is the drab materialism in
the meat space and the superficial drama of the virtual space.

The answer to fixing baseball and other sports is to open the windows of
the skyboxes where the stat guys run the game and throw them out of
those windows. Let the players play the fans enjoy the human drama.
Similarly, the answer to what ails the modern world is to throw the
managers off the roof of their offices and let people go back to
figuring out how to live. The results may not make for an impressive
pivot table, but no one should live inside a pivot table anyway.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="5QSKcPV/3kaWfxXny4pYQQ==cb7sYX3BSb/7x/HYWXYf4VM+SQtL1y8VUSWHxETTPUAxJ4eZqajd/5kcBq9mu6QEXhr"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="FlKQm9MGw5IVfyMW2FdFFA==cb70aoMs3JbirBRXMQ9aXydSzr5XQXMSJD7OhNHAkZBoholEBBWF0jpetGzFcC+k5MW"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
