---
title: "Suicidal Thoughts"
date: "2024-03-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31702"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31702"
---

The French National Assembly <a
href="https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20240312-french-parliament-to-vote-on-macron-s-ukraine-strategy-after-controversial-ground-troop-comments"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">approved</a> the security accord with
Ukraine struck by Emmanual Macron last month. The vote was largely
symbolic and as much to do with the summer elections as policy with
Ukraine. The mythical “far-right” has been doing well in the polls due
to immigration and the economy, so Macron hopes to make the election a
referendum on supporting Ukraine. The opposition sat out the vote, so
the bill passed with a wide margin.

The security agreement means little, as it is mostly about sending
equipment and money to Ukraine, something France has been doing for ten
years, along with the rest of the NATO countries. The new thing here is
that it opens the door for France to send troops into Ukraine with the
approval of Kiev. Macron has been talking tough about doing this, but he
has been cagey about if it will happen. So far, he has been trying to
round up support from other NATO countries.

Meanwhile, the Russians have made clear that anything used by Ukraine in
their war effort is fair game for Russian strikes. Putin recently made
it clear what that means in an interview with Russian media. He said,
“It would be right for Macron to remember how it ended for Napoleon and
his soldiers, more than 600,000 of whom were left lying in the damp
earth.” Obviously, Putin is referring to the famous defeat of the French
army by the Russians that brought down Napoleon.

A reasonable question is just what the French could bring to the table
if they choose to send troops into Ukraine. The French
<a href="https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/French_Army" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">military</a> is equipped with all the latest high-tech
gear and it has over one hundred thousand people, but that includes the
Foreign Legion and reserves. Realistically, the French army is about
ninety thousand regular military, but how many are combat ready is
unknown. France also has troops stationed around the world in former
colonies.

Then there is the division of labor. The French military is split in
thirds among the Air Force, Army, and Navy. There would be no role for
the French navy in this war, so that leaves about sixty thousand people.
Of course, they could bring in the Foreign Legion, which has most likely
been operating in Ukraine since the start of the war and France can call
up its reserves, so using the base of one hundred thousand is about
right, using publicly available figures.

Realistically, what this means is the French could put twenty thousand
ground troops in the trenches after months of preparation and assembly.
Most of the French military, like every military, does not fight.
Instead, they support the fighting units, with logistics, equipment
repairs, planning and intelligence. To put that number in perspective,
Ukraine is losing about thirty thousand men per month and that is
according to the optimistic figures provided by Western sources.

Now, the French could bring in their Rafale jet fighters and CAESAR
155-millimeter self-propelled howitzers, which in theory would help
Ukraine. The problem with the howitzers is the fact that there are no
shells for them, and many have already been destroyed in Ukraine. The
jet fighters would have to operate out of Ukraine airfields, which would
need new air defenses and upgrades in order to base these planes there
without the Russians destroying them on day one.

If you look at the other militaries in NATO, you see a similar story. In
most cases, they would not be able to field anything without U.S. help.
Even in the cases of countries like France and Poland that have
significant military assets, they are not built for what is happening in
Ukraine. If the French were to send troops into Ukraine to actually
fight the Russians, they would be wiped out in a month. This is <a
href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/michaelpeck/2021/09/08/frances-military-is-a-powerfulbut-fragileally-against-russia-says-us-study/?sh=63a5d70b3c90"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">something</a> that military planners have
known long before the war started.

Surely the French military knows this, so they must have told Macron
that his scheme to send in French troops is madness. On the other hand,
generals are politicians and that means they tell the politicians in
charge what they want to hear. We saw that with General Milley in the
run-up to the Ukraine summer offensive. He told the politicians it would
work and when it failed, he retired. That could be happening here. They
could be telling Macron what he wants to hear.

Another possibility is that this is a bluff. Again, this new security
deal is nothing new accept the Ukrainian permission to bring in French
troops. Even that is symbolic as we know French troops have been
operating in Ukraine. The Russians put a <a
href="https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20240118-russia-says-targeted-french-mercenaries-in-long-range-strike-on-ukraine-s-kharkiv"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">missile</a> inside the hotel where French
“mercenaries” were quartered. We also know that French troops were
trapped in Mariupol when the Russians captured the city in 2022, so
nothing really changes here other than the language.

If it is not a bluff and it is not just domestic political theater, then
the most likely plan here is to try to repeat what was done in Syria.
When Washington tried to regime change Syria, the Russians came into
support Assad, who was able to weather the storm, but faced a Western
backed army in the south. The U.S. then put troops, including French
troops, in Syria as a trip wire. The idea was to buy time and hope to
wear out the Assad regime.

Just because that failed to work does not mean it is not a great idea,
so that could be what is happening here. France and some other NATO
countries will garrison troops behind the lines, daring the Russians to
advance further. Macron seems to have developed an obsession with
Odessa, so parking French troops there would be a red line that NATO
would draw this summer. This assumes the Russians would not put a
missile on these garrisons.

The trouble with this scheme is that time is not on the side of the
West. This has been the fundamental mistake from the start. The reason
Boris Johnson was parachuted into Kiev to scuttle the peace deal in
April of 2022 was that the neocons were sure that Russia could not
sustain a long war. All the Ukrainians needed to do was weather the
initial storm and then Russia would run out of gas. Instead, the reverse
has proven to be true, and it is the West that is being bled white.

This is one of those times when logic says it must be a bluff or merely
a political stunt in the context of the elections. Rational people
cannot accept the irrational option, but the history of this war says
that is the way to bet. For the last two years we have seen Western
leaders pick the worst option, as if they have a death wish. Maybe that
is the way to understand this thing. It is a long slow suicide of the
West, and they will not be stopped until they bring the whole thing
crashing down.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="iuF6wSU+zsYdUxRdQfqQUA==cb7vWsjvYioWkTRK+H7Tpbcz7bTrh/20zzoNKQdww/LlIlYapfLfIhjTLSi13vXe6vR"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="jSibnEP32iFOn4Rm4cADCQ==cb7CZ8FWpZDE9H81zwA8mIKs218/6fSlhAfdN+3zAhygyD/Fz7Higzx5g0rGLNseuKi"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
