---
title: "Our Code Death"
date: "2024-07-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-07-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32402"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32402"
---

Simulation theory is the hypothesis that says what people perceive as
reality is actually an advanced, hyper-realistic computer simulation. It
sounds like the basis for a cheesy science fiction story, but serious
people think seriously about it. This <a
href="https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/do-we-live-in-a-simulation-chances-are-about-50-50/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> in Scientific American covers
the basics. The very short version is something similar to what was
presented in *The Matrix* series of films, just without the killer
computer programs hunting humans who have managed to escape the
simulation.

This idea is not new. In fact, it may be one of our oldest weird ideas,
if you think of Plato’s allegory of the cave as a stab at simulation
theory. It seems that humans have always known that at the minimum we
are of two minds. There is the mind that attempts to comprehend
objective reality and the other mind that contextualizes reality into
things like social order, culture, history, and tradition. Culture is an
artificial reality of sorts, but it is often more real to us than
objective reality.

The obvious question is how could we tell if we are in a simulation? If
the beings running the simulation have fooled us for this long, then
surely, they have the ability to hide evidence of their handiwork. On
the other hand, maybe there is evidence all around us, but we were
initially coded to not be good at noticing it. As we have evolved, we
have gotten better at noticing, so perhaps our evolutionary arc is that
we finally reach the point where we notice the simulation.

Some people suggest that the drive toward creating artificial
intelligence and virtual reality is evidence that we live in a
simulation. If humans can create a reality with conscious beings inside
of it, then it stands to reason that other intelligence species have
reached the same point and we are their creation. That would mean they
are a creation of some other species and so on and so on. In other
words, “reality” is simulations all the way down.

That still leaves us with the problem of knowing we live in a
simulation. One bit of evidence would be limits or shortcuts in the
universe. There is some process, for example, that works, despite
violating the laws of physics that prevent other similar processes from
working. Maybe we find some part of the universe that seems to be
off-limits to our observations. We build a super powerful telescope and
finally see that door with the sign on it that reads, “No Entry.”

The thing is though, this approach assumes we have correctly noticed
everything to this point and have not yet found the evidence we seek.
Another way of looking at it is that maybe we have not reached the level
of noticing to see the evidence that is all around us in our daily
lives. The Mandela Effect is the observed phenomena where large numbers
of people believe something false to be true. There are dozens of
examples where lots of people collectively share a false memory.

Maybe our brains have been coded to contextualize reality in such a way
that anomalies are filtered out along with other useless junk. For
example, millions of Trump haters are slowly coming around to the idea
that the Trump assassination attempt is a false memory. Facebook is
removing the iconic images of Trump raising his fist on stage with blood
running down his face. It will not be long before these people are sure
it never happened and call it a conspiracy theory.

Along the same lines, we have the Russia Collusion Hoax, which these
same people swore was real, but now they swear it never happened at all.
The same people who made up that hoax have convinced most of the world
that Hunter Biden never owned a laptop and if he did, it was planted in
that computer shop by the same people who rigged the 2016 election for
Trump. Remember Covid? Of course not, as it never happened, and only
crazy people think otherwise.

The Covid event is rather good evidence of one of those systemic
shortcuts that point to this being a simulation. For months much of the
world literally stopped going to work and yet the economy did not
collapse. Everything we thought we knew about the workings of a modern
economy said such a thing would plunge the world into a dark age, yet
nothing changed all that much. Food got more expensive, but it somehow
managed to get on the shelves.

Probably the biggest anomaly that has been at the center of politics for
twenty years is the election of Barak Obama. To this day no one can say
with confidence that he was born in the United States. In addition to
his murky backstory, his total lack of qualifications to do anything,
much less be president, should have relegated him to obscurity, but in
violation of two hundred years of past practice, it was an asset in his
campaign for the White House.

We are seeing another one of these political paradoxes. In 2020 Kamala
Harris was as popular as rectal cancer. Despite having more money than
any other candidate, she was never able to get any interest. Now, all of
a sudden, she is anointed as the favorite to win the November election.
As with Obama, we are seeing a violation of rules that have been
predictive for many generations. Perhaps what we are really seeing is
one of those shortcuts used by the programmers.

The larger point here is that what we are seeing makes no sense in the
context of the rules we think govern human society. The reason no one
talks about the economy anymore is it no longer makes any sense. The
lunacy of the political media that has become the norm is not an effort
to warp our sense of reality, but a reflection of the spaghetti code
that is generating political media. The simulation is shaking itself to
bits because of an accumulation of bugs and bug fixes.

Of course, we know what happens when a software system becomes so buggy
that it can no longer be trusted. At least we think we know. You wipe
the system and begin with a new code base. When a business reaches a
point where it can no longer be reorganized, it is wiped out in what we
call bankruptcy. A human society that reaches the point where the bugs
are too numerous to fix, like the bad software, it is wiped out in what
we call a revolution. We may be at that point.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="rlu1iLivNs5M1gFUOeE+4A==cb7c/D2wS+8l4VvBk/6NjtVj+yix1irP75OQQjAsEVyU3SrY56sSidoO9gjhA1DZupJ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="3+3X22oXh9+bWh+mSOSLhg==cb7oZ+0kO+b+B/oJYinvyackzzc2rTKhVKWhSmaJ7UctachUFpB+86ClHfHSJNx+AIW"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
