---
title: "The New Christianity"
date: "2024-08-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-08-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32570"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32570"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door I have a post about the send gamers to
labor camps, a post about finance socialism and the Sunday podcast.
Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Was Jesus a loser? By the standards of the age, the human standards, he
was most certainly viewed as a loser, with the exception of his
followers. That was the point of crucifying someone in that period. The
Roman authorities used the practice as a form of humiliation as well as
capital punishment. The point of displaying the condemned as they
suffered and died was to let the rest of the population know that the
guy on the cross was at the bottom of the social hierarchy.

Modern Christians would take exception to calling Jesus a loser, but
early Christians would not have been offended. The humiliation of Jesus
was integral to both understanding the life of Christ and the message of
Christ. If the Romans or the Jews had executed Christ in the fashion
reserved for prominent people, then the life and message of Christ would
mean something quite different. The stripping of all human dignity at
the end was essential to the life of Christ.

Therein lies the problem for modern Christians. By the standards of this
age, Christ is a loser, just as he was two thousand years ago. The
message of Christ not only runs counter to the way in which modern
people live and are expected to live, but the bad end runs afoul of how
modern people expect the life of a hero to end. The modern person
expects the hero’s life to end in a great triumph and universal acclaim
or at least the acclaim of the major characters in the story.

Of course, the message of Christ does not work too well either.
Eschewing material prosperity is just not a thing people do in this age
or for a long time. In fact, the point of life for a long time has been
to increase your material wealth. All of the heroes of the modern age
are those who either got rich for their own sake or got rich for having
upheld the modern morality. The way around this for the modern Christian
is some form of the prosperity gospel, but that often looks like a
grift.

More important, the message of Christ was aimed at the losers. From the
start, Christianity was a religion for losers. Its appeal assumed that
the audience was composed of people who were losers and would remain
losers until they died, which would probably be soon. For them,
investing in this life made little sense, so they should invest in the
next life. Their time on this plane of existence was best used to
prepare for everlasting life in Christ.

It is a powerful message if you are a loser and most people in the late
Roman Empire and post-empire Europe were losers. Nasty, brutish, and
short is a famous line from Hobbes to describe pre-society man, but it
was also a good description of life for most people in the early
Christian era. It was true for many people when Hobbes was writing in
the 17th century. The typical person was subjected to violence, disease,
and the constant fear of running out of food.

A religion that tells the losers that their suffering is part of a
transition from this life to everlasting life and bliss is going to find
a lot of interest. The folk religions of the age were not so rosy about
what comes next. Worse yet, if you were going to get any sort of reward
in the next life, it meant living this life heroically. That did not
offer much for the peasant farmer or the man tied to the land. It is not
hard to see why a religion for losers would spread rapidly through
Europe at the time.

This insouciant description of Christianity as a religion for losers is
not intended as an insult to Christians or Christianity, but to make a
point. The rise of Christianity in the West was due to two things. One
is the majority of the population, even the upper classes, lived harsh
lives. Therefore, a promise of relief from suffering and everlasting
life had a strong appeal. The second factor was the embrace of this life
as a means to an end, rather an end in itself.

Fast forward to this age and you see that poor people live lives of
luxury relative to just a century ago. The typical poor person in
America is obese because he has unlimited cheap food. His home is full
of conveniences and entertainments. Even in the most terrifying modern
ghettos, violence is a fraction of what people experienced even a few
hundred years ago. A religion aimed at people living a life of misery is
not going to sell to a population living in luxury.

Compounding the problem is a new religion of sorts has evolved in the
West that celebrates material success. The point of life, according to
the new religion, is to increase your material wellbeing. The point of
the state is to foster those conditions and measure success by
society-wide material increase. In every election, the economy is the
top issue because in this age, we worship stuff, so the promise of more
stuff is a sign of virtue. The point of life is more stuff.

A much bigger problem for Christianity is the fact that the ruling
elites of this age have no use for Christianity. In the Middle Ages, not
only did the ruling elites have lives of struggle, but they also saw
utility in a religion that shifted the focus of their people from their
current squalor onto what comes after this life. Marx was not entirely
wrong when he wrote, “Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature,
the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions. It
is the opium of the people.”

Probably the biggest challenge for Christianity is the modern Christian,
who like the modern grammarian, refuses to evolve. The grammarian clings
to the rules of grammar as if they are timeless truths. Any thought of
ignoring them for the sake of clarity is treated as a crime against
humanity. The fact that most of what he clings to is a relative new
invention is lost on him, because what matters most to him is wielding
the blue pencil like nuns used to wield the ruler.

This is the problem with the modern Christian. He is ossified in a mode
of thought that is relatively new. Transport a modern Christin back to
medieval England and he would be burned at the stake as a heretic. Plop
him down among the early followers of Christ and they would be baffled
by his Scriptural dogmatism. The early proselytizers charged with
converting the pagans would find the modern Christian to be a rigid and
irrational burden on their work.

Christianity, as we understand it, is the result of a long evolutionary
process that adapted the life and message of Christ to the audience and
times. The inability and unwillingness of modern Christians to evolve
and adapt is probably the biggest challenge facing Christianity. Put
another way, the problem with modern Christianity is not its opponents,
but its most dogmatic defenders. They have made failure their security
blanket and refuse to let go of it.

If Christianity is going to survive, it will have to adapt to this age
and repurpose itself as a replacement for liberalism, rather than an
enabler of it. Christianity gave birth to liberalism, but it does not
have to sink under the waterline with it. Instead, it will have to
either replace it with a new Christianity or give rise to a secular
alternative that cannot just coexist with Christianity but allow it to
once again flourish. Otherwise, Christianity will go into the dustbin of
history along with Western civilization.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="3aMrbNMefSH5KCNkrC1qmQ==cb76KVgcr1i0QdPn7Xz+Mbkwugc4LKBktR3PeUGfDXig1RxJKlERrHvZRK67D18klqS"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="hPfggfO1IuIYoXaiCL3wSw==cb7OZLhX3L4Wo6W1BBv8CGf18AoBfYxNssTez7I0X1x3rWX590zImlqZOmjS+XhOBrP"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
