---
title: "College Football"
date: "2024-08-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-08-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Sports
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32547"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32547"
---

The college football season kicks off this weekend with a game between
Florida State and Georgia Tech in Ireland. This is what is now called
“week zero” of the college football calendar where a handful of teams
start the season early. Labor Day weekend remains the “official” start
of the college football season. For the longest time, football season
was Labor Day to Thanksgiving, but like everything else that tradition
has given way to rapacious greed by all involved.

College sports is a genuinely American thing. On the one hand, it is
amateur sports played by college students. On the other hand, it is a
billion-dollar sports entertainment industry operating on college
campuses. Even elite colleges like Stanford, Northwestern and Boston
College find a way to be in the circus, while pretending to put
academics ahead of the sports entertainment business. It is a uniquely
American form of mass self-deception that the rest of the world does not
understand.

The roots of college football are as normal as any other tradition. The
game evolved from both rugby and soccer, which were popular sports in
the 19th century. The old English line that “Soccer is a gentleman’s
game played by hooligans, and rugby is a hooligan’s game played by
gentlemen” carried over to America. Young college men would play one or
both, depending upon their inclination. Before long they combined into
what eventually became American football.

Naturally, the young men playing sports on their college campus would
want to test themselves against the young men on the nearby college
campus. Until fairly recent, this was the normal habit of young males.
Legend has it that Princeton and Rutgers played the first American
football game, but it was more like soccer. Harvard and McGill played
the new game which quickly became popular and eventually supplanted both
soccer and rugby on the college campus.

To some degree, the popularity of college football was due to one of
those threads that made up the American character. In every region of
the new country, self-organization was an essential element of life.
This is something Tocqueville noted when he traveled around America in
the 19th century. Self-organization was the antidote to the alienation
and isolation that arises from democracy. Instead of withdrawing from
mass public life, the individual forms islands of free association.

You see that in the early days of college football. The sport got its
big boost in the Great Depression when local leaders were looking for
ways to rally the people and keep them from organizing revolts against
the government. Cheering on the local team as they did battle with the
team from across town or across the state line was a good way to bring
people together and to give them a healthy outlet. Many sports rivalries
were born during the Great depression, even high school rivalries.

Of course, free association is at the heart of the college experience.
For most families, primary school is a function of where they live. Your
kids go to the local public schools whether you like it or not. It is
why in the current age it has become common to ask the realtor showing
you houses about the local basketball team. Parents understand that they
are not just buying a house, but they are committing their children to
the schools that come with the community in which the house is located.

College has never been that way. Young people are free to pick whatever
college they like as long as they get accepted and can afford it. That
plays a part in how the alumni of every school view their rival. Every
school’s rival is populated with impoverished simpletons for some
reason. While most students attend college within a three-hour drive of
home, they are still spoiled for choice. This makes the rivalries
between the schools possible and often makes them quite intense.

That is why college football rivalries remain, despite the fact that the
localized logic and self-organization have given way to financialization
and greed. The family who has always gone to Oklahoma continues to
suspect that the people with the Longhorn sticker on their car are
Harris voters, because it is the way it has always been and every
autumn, they are reminded of that at the big game. America has always
been a diverse country and that has always been the root of college
rivalries.

The acid of modernity is slowly eroding this bit of social capital. The
television oligopolies have decided it is good for them to have Oregon
and Rutgers in the same football league. The league Oregon played in
since forever was destroyed so they could join the Big Ten, which is
still technically a Midwest conference. Washington, USC, and UCLA have
also joined a conference whose center is two times zones away, because
that makes sense to the bankers.

What is happening to college football is a microcosm of what has been
happening everywhere in America since the dawn of financialization. The
money men find a way to monetize social capital in order to haul it away
to their vaults, leaving behind a shuffling husk of that which they
sucked dry. College football is well on its way to becoming as
artificial and synthetic as the suburban town center. The reason it
exists is nothing organic is allowed to replace it.

Whether or not this is sustainable is never asked, as the point of the
American economic model is for connected people to create bottlenecks
they can then use to skim money from every transaction that passes
through that bottleneck. This was the point Peter Theil made in his
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Zero-One-Notes-Startups-Future/dp/0804139296).
Once that bottleneck or monopoly is played out, then the parasites get
back in their wagon and go looking for a new opportunity to exploit and
never look back at what they left behind.

College football attendance has been in steady decline for a decade,
even though the television dollars have exploded. They claim ratings are
great, but no one cares about TV ratings, as most of the revenue comes
from subscriptions. Television in America is one of those bottlenecks
the oligarchs exploit. It is why CNN remains in business, despite having
few viewers. At some point, the empty seats at football games will
become a problem, but no one worries about it now.

For now, like so much of American life, what sustains college football
is the echo of old America on which college football was built. Men
watch games on Saturday because they watched games with their father,
who watched games with his father. Maybe you make a trip to your alma
mater once a year to see a game. The tradition has been hollowed out and
is now worn as a skin suit by oleaginous television executives and
grasping college administrators, but it is all you got.

That is the thing about traditions. People will hang onto them, no
matter how tattered and lifeless, until something comes along to replace
them. College football is a good example and representative of America
as a whole. The fumes of old glory and old traditions fuel the present,
but something will come along to replace those things and the people
profiting off the nostalgia for them. After all, on any given Saturday,
something could happen that changes everything.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="A/5Go8KksgCgmW/kD/J/FA==cb7M9BQ7amK3v6whydDV77/vjWM7L+4TAVmq0G4XRa8DwpiJ/O1J+BbDc5VnDQDCoz3"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="my1rtPEd7Hy+aHCfSr7Saw==cb7K269FsnIJa8PP0q0evhp98cPBXdP/7jZEcNlocW8XIfJoDgQ58KQXtCQ81Agw1py"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
