---
title: "Radio Derb September 27 2024"
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32760"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32760"
---

[<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />](https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg)

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m30s Canceller gets canceled
-   12m48s Crushing dissent in the Party
-   24m06s The Amy Wax saga latest
-   32m08s Good news about Higher Ed.
-   34m55s A new ministate
-   37m49s Sir Keir is the wurst
-   39m52s Signoff for Springfield
-   00m00s Signoff

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/62142829/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Welcome, listeners,
from
your [holistically](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Miscellaneous/college.html#holistic) genial
host John Derbyshire, looking back on another week of fun and frolic in
the public sphere.

Before I begin, my thanks as always for your emails and your support.
This is the last podcast of September so it comes with a reminder that
my monthly Diary will be up next week, readable
at [johnderbyshire.com/Opinions](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/page.html) and
cross-posted to *The Unz Review*.

And please let me just also remind you that you can make
a *tax-deductible* donation to my work by mailing an earmarked check to:
The VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759.

<span id="more-32760"></span>

**02 — Canceller gets canceled**.     I’m sure listeners and readers all
know the joke about the old guy grumbling to a stranger in a village
pub — the joke [that ends with the
line](https://www.reddit.com/r/Jokes/comments/26pf4s/an_irishman_at_the_bar_heavy_npr_listeners_might/?rdt=38325):
“But ya f\*\*\* one goat …”

My sympathies are with the old guy there. I’ve posted millions of words
of commentary, reviews, and fiction, and published [several
books](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Books/page.html). When I’m
introduced to someone for the first time, though — at any rate, someone
who dwells outside the walls of Castle Woke — along with a good vigorous
handshake I get something like: “Ah, ‘The Talk’! I love that piece!
Beautifully done!”

Not that I’m averse to a little flattery, but please — it’s been more
than twelve years since I wrote “The Talk.” Nor do I have any strong
feelings towards goats.

For those who don’t know what I’m talking about: “The Talk: Nonblack
Version” was a column I posted at *Taki’s Magazine* in April 2012. Last
time I checked it was still up at *Taki’s*, but in case it isn’t [I’ve
archived a
copy](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/NationalQuestion/talk.html) at
my personal website where you can read it.

This was in the aftermath of that incident in Sanford, Florida back in
February that year, when a young black delinquent named Trayvon Martin
was shot dead while assaulting George Zimmerman, a nonblack
neighborhood-watch patrolman.

Zimmerman, the shooter, was and still is actually [a light-skinned
Hispanic](https://abcnews.go.com/US/george-zimmerman-lives-constant-fear-ptsd/story?id=22545412).
He was white enough, though, for the shooting to generate a mighty surge
of what I call “[the romance of American
blackness](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/History/romance.html)“:
the cherished story, dear to the hearts of whites and blacks alike, of
ugly snarling gap-toothed rednecks doing violence to meek, helpless,
photogenic blacks.

Part of that surge was a parade of black journalists publishing articles
about how they had to give The Talk — capital “T” — to their children,
warning them to tiptoe about in public for fear of evil whites lurking
round every corner waiting for an opportunity to harm them.

In fact, as everyone knows and all crime statistics confirm, blacks are
far more dangerous to whites — and, indeed, to each other — than whites
are to blacks. So I countered all that nonsense about The Talk with my
nonblack version, telling the truth of the matter — as if we don’t all
know it — with links to supporting statistics.

This is of course a zone in which truth is no defense, is in fact
forbidden. There was swooning, pearl-clutching, and shrieks of horror
all over about my column.

I was a contributing editor at *National Review* when “The Talk:
Nonblack Version” was posted at *Taki’s*. Rich Lowry, the editor
of *National Review*, canceled me by email. I wasn’t a salaried
employee, so I can’t say he *fired* me; but yes, he definitely canceled
me.

Nor can I say I was very distressed about my cancellation. *National
Review* was, and still is, a gentry-conservative magazine. I’d been
contributing to their pages [for nigh-on fifteen
years](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/China/accidentalasian.html),
and should have known better than to publish true facts about race, even
in a different outlet.

In any case the event didn’t seem to me to be worth getting distressed
about. My first acquaintance with journalism had been in 1980s Britain,
where the profession was held in low regard and an opinion columnist was
thought a dull fellow if he hadn’t been fired once or twice for crossing
the boundaries of propriety.

Forward twelve years to today. *National Review* is still in business,
their editorial line is still gentry-conservative with punctilious
respect for what the founder of the magazine ([although in a different
context](https://mondoweiss.net/2010/04/failure-to-stifle-sullivan-represents-great-turning-point/))
called “the structure of prevailing taboos,” and Rich Lowry is still
editor.

On September 16th Lowry was the guest of Fox News veteran Megyn Kelly on
her daily vidcast, *The Megyn Kelly Show*. They talked about the hot
political news item of that week: the flooding of Springfield, a small
Ohio town, with settlers from Haiti and allegations that the settlers
had been stealing geese from town ponds and pet cats from residents for
food.

Over to Lowry, with particular attention to what he says at eleven
seconds in to the clip.

\[[*Clip*](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Lowry1.mp3): 
I loved — I think it was in that interview where Dana Bash says, y’know,
police have gone through eleven months of recordings of calls and
they’ve only found two Springfield residents calling to complain about
Haitianiggr … er, migrants taking geese from ponds. Only two callers,
and I think one lesson this \[*sic*\] whole story: people don’t care
about geese. Ah, people really hate geese! (*chuckle*) They … they … All
things considered, I think people would prefer Haitian migrants to come
and take the geese off the golf course, right? So it’s, it’s petsist.
The cats and dogs has become the … the standard. Geese clearly don’t
matter.\]

Did you get it? Lowry tripped over his tongue there. Trying to say
“Haitian migrants” the opening “m” of “migrants” got swallowed by the
concluding “n” of “Haitian, “and the “i” of “migrants” came out short
instead of long. Here are the key four seconds, slowed down.

\[[*Clip*](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Lowry2.mp3): 
Haitianiggr mm mm ah migrants …\]

So Lowry said the Deplorable Word there, the word that blacks say all
the time but that is forbidden to nonblacks. It’s clear, though, that he
said it by accident, by the kind of phonetic stumble we all commit now
and then when speaking impromptu and a bit too fast.

Neither Lowry himself nor Megyn Kelly showed any signs of having noticed
the stumble. Wokesters are programmed to notice it, though, even were it
to be broadcast in morse code from Alpha Centauri. Social media was soon
ablaze. *The editor of a conservative magazine is a racist
bigot!* lefties were crowing gleefully.

Incredibly (it seems to me) that microscopic verbal stumble got Lowry
canceled from speaking engagements. Writing at his own magazine last
week, September 19th, [Lowry told
us](https://www.nationalreview.com/2024/09/next-time-cancel-me-for-something-i-actually-said/) that
a September 30th engagement at Indiana State University had been
scrapped, quote from the university authorities, quote: “following the
advice of our public safety officials regarding campus and community
safety concerns,” end quote.

A bit further down Lowry also tells us that an address he was to have
given at the Badger Institute, a gentry-conservative think-tank in, of
course, Wisconsin had also been canceled. The Institute’s President
would only tell him that it was because of, quote, “the environment,”
end quote.

I guess I could be excused for smiling quietly here at my desk reading
this stuff about my canceller getting canceled, Lowry getting hoist by
his own petard (a phrase I rather particularly like because I know the
meaning of the French verb *péter*).

But no, I’m not smiling. I’m shaking my head in despair at the depths of
infantile stupidity we have been dragged down into by our national
neurosis about race.

A university! A think tank! What does that university teach? What do the
inhabitants of that think tank think about? Heaven help us!

For the record I can testify that during fifteen years’ acquaintance
with Rich Lowry I can’t recall him ever, in word or deed, giving any
evidence of political incorrectness. Heck: as editor of a
gentry-conservative magazine, upholding political correctness has been a
key part of his *job*.

The only fault I’d find with Lowry is that when it came to approving
expense claims for travel and such, he could be
somewhat … [niggardly](https://www.vdare-archive.com/posts/ann-coulter-all-i-can-say-to-that-is.html).

**03 — Crushing dissent in the Party**.     Since I have mentioned my
2012 column “The Talk: Nonblack Version,” I may as well pull from it
some quotes relevant to this week’s news.

These quotes are from paragraph 10 of The Talk. At this point I had just
got through covering the average differences that show themselves when
large numbers of people are in play. The heading for paragraph 10 reads
as
follows, [quote](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/07/nyregion/adams-migrants-destroy-nyc.html):

Thus, while always attentive to the particular qualities of individuals,
on the many occasions where you have nothing to guide you but knowledge
of those mean differences, use statistical common sense.

End quote.

I then list, under sub-headings 10a, 10b, 10c, et cetera, some
particular applications of that statistical common sense. Here are 10f
and 10g.

(10f) Do not settle in a district
or [municipality](https://www.clickondetroit.com/news/2012/03/27/protesters-disrupt-financial-review-board-hearing-in-detroit/) run
by black politicians.

(10g) Before voting for a black politician, scrutinize [his/her
character](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Jefferson_(politician)) much
more carefully than you would a white.

End quote.

Again: we are in the realm of statistics here, of statistical truth and
statistical common sense.

-   The statement that “on average, men are taller than women” is not
    contradicted by the fact that Suzy is real tall. It’s
    a *statistical* truth.
-   Overcast skies often portend rain, so if I’m headed to an outdoor
    event and the sky is overcast, I take an umbrella. If, after all, it
    did *not* rain on the event, that fact does not prove me a fool or a
    bigot. I practiced *statistical* common sense.

I actually had New York City in mind when writing 10f and 10g. I get
the *New York Post* delivered every morning to read over my breakfast.
Much of the news therein of course concerns New York City, which is 23
percent black — just less than a quarter.

Reading the *Post* daily across thirty-some years, it’s been hard not to
notice that stories about corruption in the city government involve
black officials way, *way* more than one time in four.

This week I have New York City in mind again. Our local media are
dominated by the federal indictment of New York City Mayor Eric Adams on
corruption charges. Given the foregoing and the fact that Adams is
black, you can count me unsurprised.

This is the first federal indictment of a sitting Mayor in the city’s
history. The charges are: bribery, seeking illegal campaign
contributions, and wire fraud.

The feds seem to want to make a show out of it. Thursday morning a dozen
FBI agents actually showed up at Gracie Mansion, the Mayoral residence,
to deliver the indictment and take away the Mayor’s phone.

When you read the details, though, the charges look kind of petty. One
of the most-discussed concerned a high-rise building in Manhattan
erected to be the new Turkish Consulate. The Turks wanted it finished
and furnished when their dictator, Recep Erdoğan, was scheduled to visit
the city.

The city Fire Department weren’t satisfied with the structure so they
wouldn’t allow occupation. The Turks, who had purchased the Mayor with
minor favors, leaned on him; Fire Department officials feared for their
jobs; and matters were arranged.

That’s naughty, sure, but pretty microscopic as political corruption
goes. It’s *very* thin stuff by comparison with a U.S. Vice President
enriching his family by trading favors with ChiCom oligarchs. Is
something else going on here?

Maybe. *Washington Post*, September
26th, [quote](https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2024/09/26/eric-adams-indicted-nyc-mayor/):

The matter was assigned to U.S. District Court Judge Dale Ho, who was
nominated to the bench by President Joe Biden in 2021. Ho has a
background in election law and voting issues. Before becoming a federal
judge, he was director of the American Civil Liberties Union’s voting
rights project and he argued twice in front of the Supreme Court on
issues related to immigration and the U.S. census.

End quote.

Voting rights, huh? Immigration …

Mayor Eric Adams is not a bad sort, as New York City Mayors go. He’s a
Democrat of course, but by comparison with his predecessor, Bill de
Blasio, he’s George Washington. Before he turned to politics he was a
city cop for twenty years, so he’s well acquainted with law and order
issues and has a good grip on reality.

He’s had his differences with the Ruling Class, though, especially on
immigration. Here he was at [a town hall
meeting](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/07/nyregion/adams-migrants-destroy-nyc.html),
September 6th last year, with several senior city officials sitting in a
row behind him.

\[*Clip*:  And let me tell you something, New Yorkers: Never in my life
have I had a problem that I did not see an ending to. I don’t see an
ending to this. I don’t see an ending to this. This issue will destroy
New York City, *destroy* New York City.

We’re getting ten thousand migrants a month. One time we were just
getting Venezuela. Now we’re getting Ecuador, now we’re getting
Russian-speaking coming through Mexico, now we’re getting Western
Africa, now we’re getting people from all over the globe have made their
minds up that they’re going to come through the Southern part of the
border and come into New York City. And everyone is saying it’s New York
City’s problem.

Every community in this city is going to be impacted. Another twelve
billion dollar deficit that we’re going to have to cut. Every service in
this city is going to be impacted — all of us.

And so I say to you as I turn it over to you. This is some, some of the
most educated, some of the most knowledgeable — probably more of my
Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners and Chiefs live in this
community. So as you ask me a question about migrants, tell me what role
you played. How many of you organized to stop what they’re doing to us?
How many of you were part of the movement to say: “We’re seeing what
this Mayor is trying to do and they’re destroying New York City?

It’s going to come to your neighborhoods. All of us are going to be
impacted by this. I said it last year when we had fifteen thousand, I’m
telling you now with a hundred and ten thousand: The city we knew, we’re
about to lose.\]

We know that the Great Replacement — opening the U.S.A. to tens of
millions from the Third World and getting them on the voter rolls
a.s.a.p. — is a major priority for the Ruling Class, likely their Number
One priority.

It wouldn’t be surprising for them to be ruthlessly intolerant of any
deviation in the Party ranks on this, a key issue, perhaps *the* key
issue for our elites.

More from the *Washington Post*, quote:

If Adams were to resign or be removed from office, he would be replaced
by the city’s public advocate, Jumaane Williams, who is widely viewed as
more liberal than Adams.

End quote.

“More liberal than Adams”? Jumaane Williams, a black radical, is
slightly to the left of Kim Jong Un. With hopes of graduating to
properly-elected Mayor next year, he would certainly be more obedient to
Party Central than Adams has been. And if Adams refuses to resign as
Mayor, New York State’s Governor Kathy Hochul, a midwit Party hack, has
the power to remove him.

With the FBI leading the charge and a woke judge assigned to the case,
this looks to me very much like an elite-driven political operation.

**04 — The Amy Wax saga latest**.     Here’s another person in the news
that I’ve known for many years: fourteen years actually, since I helped
her to defend a book she had written. That was at [a panel
discussion](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/HumanSciences/upennlaw.html) organized
by the Black Law Students’ Association of the University of Pennsylvania
Law School, April 2010.

Yes, this is the continuing saga of U. Penn. law professor Amy Wax, whom
I have written about at length on VDARE.com. The authorities at her
university have been gunning for her since 2017, when, in collaboration
with another law professor at a different university, she published an
op-ed in the *Philadelphia Enquirer* arguing for [the supremacy of
bourgeois
values](https://www.inquirer.com/philly/opinion/commentary/paying-the-price-for-breakdown-of-the-countrys-bourgeois-culture-20170809.html).

She has committed numerous other offenses against Ruling-Class ideology.
Also in 2017, in [a video chat with Glenn
Loury](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cb9Ey-SsNsg), she said that she
had never seen a black student graduate in the top quarter of his or her
class at the law school, and rarely in the top half. For that she was
removed from teaching first-year courses. In 2021, and then again,
defiantly, in 2023, she invited white advocate Jared Taylor to address
her students.

That claim she made to Loury, that no black students had graduated in
the top quarter of their class, could, if false, easily be *shown* false
by U.Penn. Law School releasing the relevant statistics. So far — seven
years on — they have not done so.

And so on. Professor Wax has tenure, so the university can’t fire her;
but last year Theodore Ruger, the Law School Dean, submitted [a 12-page
charge
sheet](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11Sfwa4PU9oTuvvw-xHhfUPDJqWD7lxex/view) to
the Faculty Senate calling for “major sanctions” against her.

Now U. Penn. is acting on that. [Amy Wax has been altogether
suspended](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/23/us/university-of-pennsylvania-law-school-amy-wax.html) from
teaching for a year, on half pay. She’s also lost her named professorial
chair and summer pay in perpetuity. These sanctions all begin in fall
next year.

Monday this week Nathan Cofnas posted at X [a little photo
gallery](https://x.com/nathancofnas/status/1838350496307859961) showing
the eight members of the university hearing board that originally found
Professor Wax guilty. One is a male, or at any rate it sports a
mustache; the other seven are all women, two of them black.

That little photo gallery makes a nice set with [the one I offered you
last
week](https://x.com/martianwyrdlord/status/1836305380554457208) showing
the main editorial board of *Scientific American* magazine, six women
and three men. This was after the magazine endorsed Kamala Harris for
President. The guy who posted *that* photo gallery commented that,
quote:

*Scientific American* isn’t *Scientific American*. It’s a skinsuit being
worn by a cabal of overpromoted head girls and their housebroken
soyboys, for whom science is only interesting insofar as it can be used
to bolster propaganda imperatives for their side’s political goals —
“sustainability,” “equity,” and so on. If those goals require “science”
to be redefined as “supporting a cackling social-climbing prostitute
with the verbal IQ of a parakeet,” then that’s what The Science means.

End quote.

There is definitely a resemblance in the two photo galleries, the
disciplinary board at U. Penn. Law School and the editorial board
at *Scientific American*. This is our Ruling Class. These are the people
who have captured most of our major institutions.

There seems to be a lot of academic politics tangled up in the Amy Wax
case. According to [an article in the *Free
Beacon*](https://freebeacon.com/campus/how-penn-tried-to-buy-amy-waxs-silence/) on
Wednesday this week, these harsh sanctions were originally approved last
year by Liz Magill, who at that time was President at U. Penn.

Magill ceased to be President last December following those
Congressional hearings about antisemitism on college campuses. Magill,
at those hearings, told the Congressmen she couldn’t punish antisemitic
speech because of U. Penn.’s unbreakable dedication to free speech, to
the First Amendment. I can imagine Amy Wax rolling her eyes right up to
the ceiling when she heard *that*.

But then, says the *Free Beacon*, the university felt it was getting too
much negative publicity, what with Magill’s resignation, the student
demos for Hamas, and the proposed sanctions on Amy Wax. So they offered
Professor Wax a deal: *lighter* sanctions and a one-time payment of
$50,000 to offset the loss in summer pay.

In return, Wax would have to agree not to bad-mouth the University, not
to sue them for what they’ve subjected her to, and not to disclose
evidence she had presented in internal hearings to clear her name.

Amy Wax, bless her, refused the deal. Quote from the *Free Beacon*:

The settlement agreement would have put the kibosh on further
controversy. That is why, Wax told the *Free Beacon*, she repeatedly
refused to sign it.

\[*Inner quote*\] “This case is about free expression,” Wax said. “Penn
wanted absolute silence. The big question is: Why do they want to hide
what they’re doing?” \[*End inner quote*.\]

End quote.

So the big question now is, will Amy Wax sue? I await further reports
with interest.

**05 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  The good news about higher education is a precipitous drop
in
enrollments. [Quote](https://nypost.com/2024/09/25/opinion/college-enrollment-and-trust-are-low-caught-in-a-death-spiral-of-liberal-ideology/):
“From 2010 to 2021, enrollments fell from roughly 18.1 million students
to about 15.4 million.” End quote. I took that from a column by law
professor
and [author](https://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1668047047) Jonathan
Turley in Thursday’s *New York Post*.

Professor Turley allows that some of that drop is due to declining
birth-rates and some to increasing economic hardship; but he gives some
good respectable poll numbers showing that public regard for higher ed.
has been sliding downwards for years.

For example — these numbers are from Gallup — people were asked whether
they had “a great deal” or “quite a lot” of confidence in higher ed.
Nine years ago 57 percent said they did; last year, only 36 percent.

Quote from Professor Turley:

In my new book [*The Indispensable Right: Free Speech in an Age of
Rage*](https://www.amazon.com/Indispensable-Right-Free-Speech-Rage/dp/1668047047/ref=sr_1_1),
I discussed the intolerance in higher education and surveys showing that
many departments no longer have a single Republican as faculties
replicate their own views and values.

One survey (based on self-reporting) found that only 9 percent of law
professors identified as conservative.

End quote.

It’s strange to recall — and I *can* recall it; it wasn’t that long
ago — that the legal profession, especially at the level of judges, was
the embodiment of conservatism, a bulwark of established principles and
procedures — *laws*! Now it’s just a front for leftist political
activism.

Our universities, our courts. We really are in trouble.

*Item*:  Pop quiz: What’s the world’s smallest nation? Yes, you got it:
Vatican City, 127 acres, population 764. That’s the world’s smallest
nation.

Not for much longer, though. Albania is planning to create a similar,
but even smaller, self-governing religious enclave on what is currently
Albanian territory. This new nation, to be officially named the
Sovereign State of the Bektashi Order will, the *New York Times* tells
us,
have, [quote](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/21/world/europe/albania-tirana-muslim-state-bektashi.html) “its
own administration, passports and borders,” end quote.

The religion of the new nation will be Islam, but in a mild and
eccentric form. The Bektashis are a medieval Moslem sect at odds with
both Sunni and Shiite Islam. They are exceptionally tolerant, allowing
alcohol, letting women wear what they want, and imposing no lifestyle
rules on believers.

Although too moderate for mainstream Muslims, they were too Islamic for
Kemal Ataturk, who threw them out when he established the modern Turkish
republic a hundred years ago. They took refuge in Albania and have been
there ever since.

So how small will this new country be? Twenty-seven acres; that’s about
five New York City blocks. If shaped as a perfect circle, the entire
border would be less than three-quarters of a mile. If a perfect square,
the perimeter would still be less than five-sixths of a mile … Sorry, my
inner mathematician got loose there.

Baba Mundi, current leader of the Bektashi sect, told the *Times* that,
quote, “Size doesn’t matter.” Yeah, [that’s what we guys always
say](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Books/Fire/Text/Chapters/FFTS45.html).

I just hope the Bektashis will be able to control the fourteen hundred
yards of their border. Perhaps we could send Kamala Harris over there to
give them some pointers.

*Item*:  Rich Lowry isn’t the only one having speech stumbles. British
Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, addressing his party’s annual
conference on Tuesday, made a plea for peace in the Levant,
thus, [quote](https://www.politico.eu/article/uk-keir-starmer-labour-release-israel-sausage-hostage-hamas/):

I call again for restraint and de-escalation at the border between
Lebanon and Israel. Again, for all parties to pull back from the brink.

I call again for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza, the return of the
sausages — the hostages — and a recommitment to the two state solution,
a recognized Palestinian state alongside a safe and secure Israel.

End quote.

Naturally [the comment thread at
X](https://x.com/rahhead01/status/1838623919277797475) had much fun with
that. Sample comment, quote: “This absurd man must be the wurst PM in
history,” end quote, “wurst” spelled “w-u-r-s-t.” And so on.

The fate of the Israeli hostages, supposing any are still alive, should
of course be no laughing matter. Sir Keir Starmer, on the other
hand, *should* be a laughing matter: a clueless clown with no idea at
all how to attend to the security, prosperity, and health of his
nation’s citizens.

So … to laugh or not to laugh? Life is full of choices.

**06 — Signoff**.     There you have it, ladies and gents — another week
of sliding down History’s razor blade. Thank you for listening or
reading, and may the force be with you these last days of September.

To play us out, here’s a song I remember from many years back, in a
recording from many, *many* years back — actually from 1901. This
is [Burt Shepard](https://www.discogs.com/artist/1603790-Burt-Shepard),
an American who achieved fame in Britain way back then. This particular
song has been getting a new lease of life recently in and around
Springfield, Ohio.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
