---
title: "The Madame’s Shadow"
date: "2024-02-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31535"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31535"
---

**Note:** For those looking for a good book to read, check out this new
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CTV28BH7" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">novel</a> *Faction: With the Crusaders*, which is the
follow on of the writer’s first
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/Faction-Karl-Dahl/dp/1082596450/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">novel</a> called *Faction*.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the underappreciated aspects of the French Revolution is how the
ruling class system became detached from the overall social system. The
people in the ruling class were ignorant of what was happening in the
country and not just the social unrest, but the economic changes that
were coming. The people were just as ignorant about why their rulers
were doing the things they were doing. Pre-revolutionary France was two
black boxes left to guess about the contents of the other.

The United States is entering a similar period. Much of what makes up
internet political content is either a reaction to some new emission
from the managerial elite or an effort to contextualize those emissions.
No one can be sure why the ruling class is doing the things they are
doing, as it is not tied to anything normal people experience, so the
Dirt People are left to produce their own explanations. Dirt People
political culture is a debate about what in the hell is going on in the
clouds.

The people in charge could very well be holographic projections from an
alien world as far as anyone knows. Their actions and statements rarely
correspond to their stated interests or the social interests. You see it
in this big drama they are staging for themselves over the failed Senate
bill on immigration. Somehow, official Washington convinced themselves
that bundling Israel money, Ukraine money and open borders money was a
winning formular with the Dirt People.

The reason they bundle these things together is one faction decides to
make a trade with another faction in what is called log rolling.
Congressman X wants money for a project and Congressman Y wants money
for a different project, so they agree to support each other’s projects,
even if they should be opposed to them. In this case, neocons go along
with some sort of border reform, so they get more money for their
efforts to start a nuclear war with Russia.

That is the theory, but in reality, the bill both parties in the senate
thought was a winning compromise was something entirely different. It
was the open borders crazies getting support from the blow up the world
crazies so they could both get billions to fling open the borders and
blow up the world. There was nothing in the bill that the voting
factions of either party would want or even care about. No one wants
open borders, and no one cares about Ukraine or Israel for that matter.

As soon as the senate bill failed, the demon known as Chuck Schumer told
the world that he will be <a
href="https://apnews.com/article/congress-ukraine-aid-border-security-386dcc54b29a5491f8bd87b727a284f8"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">working</a> with Mitch McConnell to come
up with a way to give money to the blow up the world faction. This gives
us a clue about what was really going on with that senate bill. We
already have open borders, so that faction was not getting much from any
deal, so the real issue was smuggling in the Ukraine money. Israel has
check writing privileges at the Fed, so they get their money
automatically.

That explains what was really going on here, but it raises a question.
Why are these people so obsessed with Ukraine? We know the Kagan cult
has enormous sway in Washington, probably due to their work with
Epstein. We know that Ukraine is a money laundering operation and much
of the money ends up in the pockets of connected people in Washington.
That all makes sense, but we also know that this project is doomed, so
why are they still obsessed with it?

The writing has been on the wall with regards to the Ukraine war for a
long time, especially after the NATO planned offensive failed last
summer. The reason General Miley is fishing now is he promised a
smashing success. Instead, he delivered scenes of NATO armor on fire in
the fields outside the Russian lines. Self-interest should have told
Washington that it was time to find a way out of this mess. Instead,
they remain singularly obsessed with this project.

People will be tempted to say it is money and power, as those are simple
answers that let you stop thinking, but these people have the money and
power. If Mitch McConnell wanted more power, he would never have gone
along with this ridiculous bill and instead railed against the Ukraine
project. That is good politics, especially in an election year when he
could see his party return to the majority. Money and power say the
republicans should be doing the opposite of what they do.

That brings us back to those black boxes of the French Revolution. A
healthy society has a feedback loop between the people and their rulers.
The practical interests of the people feed the rulers through various
mechanisms like the media, voting, public protests, and economic
behavior. The moral claims of the rulers, the things you ought and ought
not do, flow down those same channels to the people so that the behavior
beneficial to the elite becomes a habit of mind.

In pre-revolutionary France, this loop was broken. The economic
interests of the elite were still based on a feudal understanding of the
world, so they could not read the economic activity of the masses, which
were shifting from that model. Similarly, elites were blind to what was
happening in the newly emerging bourgeois class that was arguing about
liberal ideas in salons and public houses. The feedback loop had broken
and that left those two black boxes.

We have a similar problem in modern America. The media used to provide
signals to the Cloud People about what was happening with the Dirt
People. Now the media is poorly tuned repeaters of things said by the
Cloud People. For example, they are all chanting the word “chaos” now,
as if they received a memo instructing them to weave the word into their
public performances. This makes the Cloud People feel good, but it also
blinds them to what is happening with the Dirt People.

Similarly, Dirt People continue to get bizarre instructions through the
economic and media channels about the constantly changing moral code.
For no reason at all the Clouds begin to rumble and some weird new idea
rains down on people. One day it is men in dresses falling from the sky.
The next day it is Jewish dwarf in a green jump suit demanding money to
fight the Russians. When the Dirt People look into the clouds, they now
see a funhouse mirror.

There are two ways this can end. One is some people in the Clouds
realize what is happening and organize a revolt against the other side.
This is mostly what happened in the late-1960’s and 1970’s. One group of
Cloud People revolted and ushered in a period of reform. The other way
it ends is the Cloud People rally in defense of their position against
what they perceive to be a peasant revolt. This inevitably leads to a
peasant revolt and the collapse of the system.

What that senate bill suggests is that there is no one in the managerial
class aware of the problem, much less interested in solving it. James
Lankford, the Oklahoma senator who negotiated the deal with Schumer,
should not even be in the senate much less brokering such a deal with an
arch demon like Schumer. Lankford should be back organizing swim lessons
at Bible camp. If there were any reformers in the system, they would
have stopped this before this point.

The question that remains is whether or not the American system is past
the point where reform is possible. There are libraries of books
describing such inflection points in the French Revolution. The past is
always uncertain, so there are lots of debates about when things became
inevitable in revolutionary France. In the moment, however, no one
seemed to know because no one could know. In other words, we will know
it is too late when Madame Guillotine is set up across from the Capitol.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="V61L2XOGUMTl8B2NbTIejA==cb75s0u3ZwN9/GCiiOHnWrnr7l4JAK+uuyxyjdaq89LrkDH7FuESpzHC2efuqxaahas"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="hCx+Uw7uFzZkfrjgtCt38w==cb7ZeuOiMwuP5/X5tWuSTUFxZUdzTWLRNC0Ry86GAPLePYFdwXowhDSBGg4PJQySD81"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
