---
title: "Radio Derb December 13 2024"
date: "2024-12-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-12-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33211"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33211"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m56s Make America Normal Again
-   06m09s Trump: harbinger of a new age
-   11m05s Syria is the new Libya
-   16m50s The West is best
-   21m48s Immigration roundup
-   28m39s Spared the Hitler comparison
-   30m10s Cliodynamics (not sci-fi)
-   31m30s Moore’s list
-   32m36s Signoff:  An advertisement for Cultural Appropriation

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/63310633/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Welcome, listeners.
This is your demonstrably genial host John Derbyshire, back in the
recording studio after nine days off the grid. So this week’s podcast is
farm-fresh, not frozen and reheated like last week’s.

Mr and Mrs Derbyshire actually spent eight of those nine days in Belize.
That, you can be entirely excused for not knowing, is a tiny little
nation on the East coast of the Central American isthmus, a British
colony until 1981 but now independent. I shall have more to say about
our Belize adventure in
my [Diary](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/page.html) at
the end of this month.

And now I’m back in the saddle with Radio Derb’s weekly survey of the
news. The transition from warm Caribbean air to the frosty New York
variety has left me with a sore throat, so I’m going to sound a little
hoarse \[[horse
sound](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Horse.mp3)\],
for which I apologize. That aside, it’s business as usual.

So, the news. First, MANA.<span id="more-33211"></span>

**02 — Make America Normal Again**.     It is dawning on people,
including big-name social and political commentators, that Donald
Trump’s re-election to the Presidency marks the turning of some kind of
corner. The most eloquent expression of that dawning that I’ve so far
seen was by Francis Buckley at Real Clear Politics, December 3rd. Here’s
the opening
graf, [quote](https://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2024/12/03/the_coming_struggle_for_the_soul_of_the_democratic_party_152032.html):

Beneath the folds of each of our two political parties, a hidden party
struggles to emerge. It’s not the woke Democratic Party of open borders
and Saint Jussie Smollett, and it’s not the Make America Great Again GOP
of the January 6 rioters and Matt Gaetz. It’s the Make America Normal
Again party. MANA.

End quote.

Buckley’s column is mainly aimed at the Democratic Party. They need to
drop the weird stuff, he’s telling them. Voters — at any rate, enough
voters to give Trump the victory in the teeth of shrieking hostility
from all the regime media — voters don’t want crime to be legal, our
borders to be open, our energy policy to be dictated to us by [some
ditzy Swedish
teenager](https://www.teenvogue.com/story/greta-thunberg-vogue-scandinavia-cover),
and our kids taught that they are whichever sex they want to be this
morning. Swelling numbers of voters don’t want any of that. They
want *normality*.

Progressives, some of whom are not stupid, seem to have gotten the
message. Extreme anti-Trumpism — he’s Hitler reincarnated, he’ll destroy
democracy, *et cetera* — has disappeared from the public square. Some
progressive bastions have even admitted that Trumpism may have a point.

*New York Times*, December 11th,
Headline, [quote](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/12/11/briefing/us-immigration-surge.html): Recent
Immigration Surge Has Been Largest in U.S. History. Sub-heading: “Under
President Biden, more than two million immigrants per year have entered,
government data shows.” End quotes.

The *Times* article is nothing sensational to anyone who follows
immigration issues, but by the standards of elite media it’s brutally
honest. Those standards are of course set low. The *Times* is no way
going to let go of its cherished “eleven million” for the number of
foreigners living illegally in the U.S.A. It’s been given as eleven
million for thirty years, to my certain knowledge. The true number is by
now most likely fifty or sixty million. Still, baby steps.

There is definitely an awakening. How it will proceed in matters of
official policy and law remains to be seen; but our country will be much
less weird four years from now, our media more honest. We shall be
more *normal*.

**03 — Trump: harbinger of a new age**.     Trump’s re-election has
caused some serious re-thinking outside our nation’s borders, too. The
landmark essay here is by Tom McTague writing at Unherd.com, December
10th. [Sample
quote](https://unherd.com/2024/12/trumps-new-world-order/):

It is striking how open so many diplomats and officials are to Trump’s
approach, telling me that they see in it a degree of brutal honesty if
not morality. During his first term there was a hope that his Hobbesian
outlook on life would not, in the end, last. Today, there is no such
hope — or even desire.

End quote.

The international politics of the civilized Western world has
traditionally, like the internal politics of the member nations, been
class-based: snobs *versus* slobs. In the global arena, the European
nations have been the snobs, looking down on the crude, not-very-smart
slobs of that country on the other side of the Atlantic.

Growing up in England, I early got acquainted with a mocking style of
humor where Americans were concerned.

*American*:  So you’re British, huh? What line of work you in?

*Brit*:  I’m a clerk. (*Pronounced British style, to rhyme with
“park.”*)

*American*:  Huh? If you’re a clark, why ain’t you goin’ “tick tark,
tick tark?”

Don’t get me wrong. Americans were generally liked. We street urchins
particularly liked the way they’d give us chewing gum after a little
cadging. It was just that the Brits and Euros thought Yanks uncultured
and none too bright.

The 2016 election of Trump played into that snobbery. He was the
archetypal American slob — loud, coarse, rich. The Euro snobs looked
down on Donald Trump steadily for eight years. Well, goodbye to all
that.

Further quote from Tom McTague at Unherd.com:

The comprehensive nature of Trump’s victory coupled with European
rolling political and economic crises, seems to have robbed the
continent’s leaders of any last delusion of superiority.

End quote.

“Rolling political and economic crises,” indeed. All the big Euro
powers — Germany, France, Britain — are in poor shape. All have Trumpish
new political parties with increasing appeal to these nations’ native
slobs: the AfD in Germany, Marine Le Pen’s National Rally party in
France, Nigel Farage’s Reform party in Britain. All over Europe the
traditional party arrangement is looking less and less relevant to
voters’ concerns.

So when Donald Trump shows up over there still draped in his victory
laurels, as he did last Saturday for the re-opening of Notre Dame
cathedral in Paris, he is greeted as — and I have to quote Tom McTague
again, he’s hit so many nails on their heads here — quotes: “the
harbinger of a new age … a clarifying presence” end quotes.

It would take a braver man than I am to predict how this will all play
out long-term; but yes, we have turned a corner. And the rest of the
civilized world is following us: us, and our leader, Donald Trump.

**04 — Syria is the new Libya**.     So much for the civilized world.
How are things going among the barbarians?

The big news here is of course the fall of the Syrian dictator Bashar
al-Assad after 24 years in power. Al-Assad was helicoptered out from his
palace December 8th to asylum in his longtime ally Russia.

Why does Russia care about Syria? Because Russia has a key naval
facility at Tartus on Syria’s Mediterranean coast. They’ve been leasing
it from the Syrians for more than fifty years, since al-Assad’s father
Hafez al-Assad took over the country. Tartus is a key power-point for
Russia in the Mediterranean.

Will it go on being so now that these rebels have taken over? Beats me.
The power line-up here among the barbarians and the civilized nations
enabling or opposing them — I’d put Russia in the “enabling” category —
is more than my poor tired brain can encompass. If you want to give it a
try, take a look at [the long
thread](https://x.com/whyvert/status/1866722390807355483) by [geostrategist
Martin
Skold](https://www.amazon.com/Race-Finish-Line-Assessing-Competition-ebook/dp/B0CHPT38P5/ref=sr_1_1) on
X.

Other players aside, the consequences for Syria itself are not hard to
guess. The place has been in a state of civil war for thirteen years. It
has no politics above the level of al-Assad’s brutish despotism, and no
significant economy. There are lots of squabbling ethnies, most notably
the Kurds who Turkey sees as threatening. Most Syrians with anything on
the ball have left.

Syria’s future is Libya’s and Iraq’s present: endless tribalist war,
famine and disease, neighbor nations snatching what they can (Israel has
already snaffled some more of the Golan Heights), destitution and
misery, more floods of refugees heading for Europe, where they are
increasingly unwelcome.

It’s an all-too-common fate for Arab nations not blessed with big oil
reserves. Is it especially Arab? Or Muslim? — Afghanistan and Iran are
not exactly advertisements for non-Arab Muslim governance. Or for
clannish nations in general, with their tribal loyalties and [cousin
marriage](https://x.com/hbdchick/status/1867121285228359947)? Sorry,
above my pay grade.

My only book-length engagement with this particular brand of barbarism
was reading David Pryce-Jones’ 1989 book *The Closed Circle* thirty-some
years ago.

I had a slight acquaintance with David when we were both contributors
at *National Review*. He is a very smart guy indeed, and terrifically
well-read. I remember glowing with pride when he complimented me once on
something I’d written.

In *The Closed Circle* … Well, I’ll just quote from the
book’s [description at
Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/Closed-Circle-Interpretation-Edward-Burlingame-ebook/dp/B002EVP4V8/).
Quote:

This important book explains how Arabs are closed in a circle defined by
tribal, religious, and cultural traditions. David Pryce-Jones examines
the forces which \[*inner quote*\] drive the Arabs in their dealings
with each other and with the West. \[*End inner quote*.\] In the postwar
world, he argues, the Arabs reverted to age-old tribal and kinship
structures, from which they have been unable to escape.

End quote.

Absent some really major social changes — perhaps even genetic ones —
the Muslim Arabs of the Middle East — at any rate, the ones with no
oil — seem destined to follow that same dismal path into despotism,
misery, and squalor.

“From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free!” screech the
demonstrators in our streets. No it won’t, not ever. It’ll be another
rattletrap crap-hole country ruled by gangsters. Check out *The Closed
Circle*.

**05 — The West is best**.     I’m a bit free, sometimes ambiguously,
with the terms “civilized” and “Western.” Aren’t there nations out East
that are civilized?

Of course there are. Japan is certainly a civilized nation. So is
Taiwan, although with slight qualifications: the island was under a
strict military dictatorship until 1987. Mainland China? Eh; I’d say
“civilized … with *major* qualifications.” They really need to get
themselves properly constitutional government under a rule of law, with
civil liberties and free elections.

What about South Korea? Most people would reflexively put it in with
Japan and Taiwan, especially considering the contrast between it
and *North* Korea, which has pioneered a whole new style of modern
high-IQ barbarism, nukes and all.

I’d put South Korea together with Taiwan as “civilized with slight
qualifications.” The place was under military dictatorship for
thirty-odd years until [the June
Uprising](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/June_Democratic_Struggle) of
that magic year 1987. But yeah: I won’t begrudge them the adjective
“civilized.”

South Korea is not a happy place, though. I was reading about that a
couple of weeks ago in *Newsweek* magazine, which put [President Yoon on
its front
cover](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Newsweek20241115.jpg) and
a long story inside about how unhappy the country is.

Having Kim Jong Un as your nextdoor neighbor is of course not conducive
to happiness. That’s not the South’s main problem, though. Their main
problem is demographic. I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago. [Quote
from
me](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-11-29.html#06b):

South Korea’s Total Fertility Rate is now at a sensationally low 0.68
children per woman. That’s a decline from 1.2 children per woman since
2014, so [a 43 percent
decline](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/SKfertility.jpg) in
just ten years.

End quote.

Here is what the *Newsweek* November 15th article has to say, [quote
from
them](https://www.pressreader.com/usa/newsweek/20241115/281487871861912):

For while the threat of new conflict with the nuclear-armed North has
long loomed across the armistice line, the South’s domestic problems are
growing — from the strains on its health care system to worries over the
labor force to education. A deepening divide between genders, a
collapsing birth rate and an aging population have set it on course for
a demographic collapse as dramatic as any in the industrialized world.

End quote.

Forward to this month. On December 3rd President Yoon declared martial
law. Armed troops were sent to surround the Parliament buildings. Yoon
said this was to maintain order, as the opposition party in the national
legislature had been wantonly trying to undermine his administration
through legislative maneuvers, including impeachment motions against top
officials.

The martial law decree only lasted six hours before being overturned by
a unanimous vote in the National Assembly. As I go to press here, South
Korea’s Parliament is debating a motion to impeach President Yoon over
the martial law declaration. Halfway through his five-year term in
office, President Yoon is in serious trouble.

So, Eastern civilization? Yeah sure. I’d still say, though, that with
all our well-advertised problems, the West is best.

**06 — Immigration roundup**.     Just a few notes on the immigration
front.

New York is of course a sanctuary city, with major restrictions on city
agencies and law enforcement assisting ICE (Immigration and Customs
Enforcement).

That’s going to change some. Thursday this week Mayor Eric Adams had a
sit-down with Trump’s Border Czar Tom Homan. It seems to have gone
pretty well. Thursday evening, after the meeting, Homan was praising
Adams on Fox News for his willingness to work with ICE, at least where
dangerous illegal-alien criminals are concerned. [Sample
quote](https://nypost.com/2024/12/12/us-news/trumps-border-czar-pick-tom-homan-praises-nyc-mayor-adams-following-great-meeting-new-york-city-is-about-to-get-a-lot-safer/):

He gets it. And today he proved that as the mayor of New York City, he’s
more concerned with public safety than politics. He wants to help ICE
take criminal threats off the street. He wants to help ICE look for
national security threats. He wants to help ICE find over 340,000
missing children, of which many are going to be in the city.

End quote.

That’s nice. As the *New York Post* observed, though, quote from the
print version: “Any order, though, by Adams’ own admission, would only
address a small fraction of the tens of thousands of migrants who have
been living in the big apple on the taxpayers’ dime.” End quote.

I’d also note that an order from the Mayor to do anything at all about
the city’s illegal aliens would meet stiff opposition from the City
Council, whose political center of gravity is about ninety-three points
to the left of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.

Meanwhile on the *legal* immigration front, there are problems a-brewing
in Trump’s administration-designate.

Trump himself seems to be naive about our policies there. He favors
pretty much unrestricted work visas for high-tech workers. Elon Musk is
of the same mind. Musk has called for fixes to make immigration easier
for, [quote](https://x.com/elonmusk/status/1859420066284028183),
“super-talented people,” end quote.

Musk is apparently not aware of the racket being run by Indian
employment agencies — “body shops” — in cahoots with AILA, the American
Immigration Lawyers’ Association, to replace mid-level American tech
workers with cheaper foreign replacements.

Those cheaper replacements are “super-talented people” only by
comparison with Guatemalan fruit-pickers. Any adjustment to the
work-visa system, though — for sure, any adjustment acceptable to AILA —
will have them pouring in in their tens of thousands, with corrsponding
layoffs of U.S. citizens.

Trump himself *did* seem to be aware of the racket when running in 2016.
He spoke angrily about the cases like Disney Corp., when citizen IT
workers had to train their cheap foreign replacements on pain of losing
their severance pay. Apparently he’s forgotten that now.

One person who hasn’t, and who successfully stood up for American
workers in the Trump 45 administration, is Stephen Miller, designated to
serve as White House deputy chief of staff for policy in Trump 47.

Who will have Trump’s ear on behalf of U.S. citizens, Musk or
Miller? [Get some popcorn
ready](https://www.politico.com/news/2024/12/01/elon-musk-steven-miller-battle-high-tech-immigration-00191922).

And finally on this topic, just another instance of the nasty
spitefulness of the outgoing administration.

Yes: Trump 45 was tardy about fulfilling his campaign promises to build
a big, beautiful wall along our Southern border. He did eventually make
a good start, though; and when he left office there was border-wall
material stacked up along strategic sections of the border waiting to be
erected.

Those erections never happened. When Joe Biden took office, he
immediately halted all border wall construction. The wall material has
been lying there since 2021.

So after January 20th construction can get going again, right? With the
materials that have been lying there unused for four years, right?

Not if the Biden administration has anything to say about it. The *Daily
Wire* has got [video
evidence](https://www.dailywire.com/news/exclusive-biden-races-to-sell-off-border-wall-parts-before-trump-takes-office) of
unused sections of the wall being hauled away on the back of flatbed
trucks to be auctioned through [GovPlanet](https://www.govplanet.com/),
a surplus government equipment auctioneer.

The material is perfectly good and usable, and of course it was paid for
by your tax dollars and mine. The Biden people are just determined to do
anything they can to keep the border open for illegal entry. Open
borders isn’t just a policy for these folk; it’s a religion, and Trump
is a blasphemer.

**07 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  The endless invoking of Adolf Hitler as [the epitome of
political
evil](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Culture/itma.html) is of
course tiresome. Sure, Hitler *was* evil, but so were many others. My
own candidate for the epitome of political evil in the last century
would be Lenin, but his name is never used in that context.

Stalin, a strong runner-up, gets an occasional showing, though. Here was
neocon loony John Bolton the other day, addressing the nomination of
Kash Patel as FBI Director. [Quote from
Bolton](https://nypost.com/2024/12/01/us-news/conservatives-cheer-kash-patels-nomination-to-helm-fbi-as-critics-mobilize-against-him/):

Trump has nominated Kash Patel to be his Lavrenty Beria. Fortunately,
the FBI is not the NKVD. The Senate should reject this nomination 100-0.

End quote.

Lavrenty Beria was the head of Stalin’s secret police, so Bolton is
pointing to Stalin as the epitome of evil, at one remove. Let’s be
grateful for small mercies; at least we were spared the Hitler
comparison.

*Item*:  I spoke back there about our society turning a corner, socially
and politically. That metaphor actually belongs to an academic — or
sub-academic — discipline, the one called “cliodynamics.”

[Clio was the ancient Greek muse of
history](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clio). Cliodynamics seeks to
figure out natural laws governing the transformation of societies from
being like *this* to being like *that*.

[Hari Seldon’s
“psychohistory”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hari_Seldon) of course
comes to mind, from Isaac Asimov’s *Foundation* series of sci-fi novels.
I don’t know how much space the cliodynamicists have managed to put
between themselves and science fiction, but their discipline is
respectable enough to have an international, peer-reviewed, open-access
journal [to its name](https://escholarship.org/uc/cliodynamics).

I may look into it; or … I may just re-read my Asimov.

*Item*:  Wednesday this week Stephen Moore put out [a list of
suggestions](https://www.pressreader.com/usa/new-york-post/20241211/282187951605549) for
DOGE, the Department of Government Efficiency to be headed up by Elon
Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy.

There are some great suggestions there. Defund sanctuary cities and
states … End foreign aid programs … Sell off unpaid federal loans to
private bill collectors … Fire the 30,000 new IRS agents Biden hired …
and so on.

Here’s my five cents worth: Declare war on public-sector labor lobbies.
(I refuse to call them “unions.”) Ban them at the federal level: somehow
make it really expensive and difficult for states and municipalities
that tolerate them.

**08 — Signoff**.     That’s all I have, folks. I had planned another
segment on [the acquittal of Daniel
Penny](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14182489/jamaal-bowman-rant-white-people-daniel-penny.html) in
the New York City subway case. My voice is giving out, though. In lieu
of my commentary, I urge you to watch [the eleven-minute
clip](https://x.com/NatCon2022/status/1867037526277431589) of Jared
Taylor talking about the acquittal. There’s a link to it right here in
the Radio Derb transcript; and the transcript is available both at the
Z-man’s website and at my own, johnderbyshire.com.

Then, when you’ve listened to the clip, fire off a post to X demanding
that Elon Musk re-instate Jared’s X account. Its continuing suspension
is an insult to a great and brave patriot.

1.  Thanks as always for your time and attention; now get to work
    wrapping those presents to put under the Christmas tree.

For signoff this week I’m going to give you a Michael Jackson
number, *Beat It*. That’s the name of the tune, *Beat It*.
Please *don’t* beat it — I mean, don’t quit listening if you’re not a
Michael Jackson fan — because this is a Chinese adaptation of the tune,
played on a *gŭzhēng*, which is to say, a traditional Chinese plucked
zither. This, I tell you, is an *advertisement* for Cultural
Appropriation.

The performer here is the accomplished and beautiful 29-year-old Péng
Jìngxuān, who is a student of Musical Theory at Bordeaux International
Music Conservatory in France. Ms Péng has been doing impromptu public
performances in the streets and parks of France [for six years
now](https://english.rednet.cn/content/646849/98/13869039.html). She’s
posted videos of those performances to the internet and become quite a
star online.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
