---
title: "Gradually And Then Suddenly"
date: "2024-06-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-06-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32203"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32203"
---

The Brits are set to have an election on July 4th, ironically enough,
and everyone expects it to be a terrible result for the ruling party.
The Tories have been in power for a long time and have managed to break
every promise they made when they gained power and make everything worse
that they promised to improve. On top of that they have gone through a
series of ridiculous people as Prime Minister. The current person in the
job is an Indian little person who has never run for office.

The reason the Conservatives called what the Brits call “snap
elections”, is the people who actually run Britain are worried about new
right-wing parties. Snap elections are those called on short notice in
some parliamentary systems. The logic behind it is that the ruling party
can more easily rig an election when they are out of favor by limiting
the time for the opposition to mount a campaign. Democracy depends on
institutional skullduggery to maintain its legitimacy.

According to
<a href="https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-68079726" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">current polling</a>, which is as fraudulent as
everything else in the West these days, the Conservatives are at 21%,
which is their lowest rating ever. This is why there is a campaign
called Zero Seats. The argument is that the only way to break the
corrupt system is to eliminate one of the two main parties. Since the
Tories are as popular as rectal cancer, they are the best target. While
unlikely, it is possible to see a scenario in which they become a fringe
party.

It is not all bad news for the Conservatives. Their historic dance
partner, Labour, is polling at just 41%, which is terrible given the
status of the Tories. Like America, the game of see-saw the parties play
says that when one face of the ruling class is unpopular, the other face
is popular. Right now, in the UK, both faces of the ruling class are
unpopular, which is why they forced snap elections. No respectable
person wants to see a new party rise up and challenge the system.

Just in case, the regime has brought Nigel Farage back from America
where he was committed to stumping for Donald Trump. Farage is now the
leader of the Reform Party, which is the heir to the Brexit Party. He
created that after he successfully led the winning side in the Brexit
referendum. The party was created to force the regime to follow through
on the referendum, which they did not do. It is one of the reasons UK
politics are such a mess now.

The only reason any of this matters is it is a good way to see how the
system adjusts to defend itself from public discontent. The British
regime is just the mini-me of the American regime, so it is a microcosm
of what happens in America. The scale is smaller, and the system is
slightly different, but we see all the same tricks used by the regime to
make sure it is always heads they win and tails you lose. One of those
tricks is to co-opt discontent into an acceptably pointless channel.

You can see how it works in the
<a href="https://x.com/PolitlcsUK/status/1802723766981599301"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">program</a> the Reform Party posted on
Twitter, now stupidly called X, the other day. They put immigration at
the top because this is one of the top issues that is rustling the
voters. To the untrained eye it all looks good, but to the trained eye
the fraud is quite clear. The point of their program is to not question
the moral claims behind immigration, but to put a fence around that
morality so the question is *how* to best manage mass immigration.

Look at the first point. “Freeze non-essential Immigration.” The only
reason to have the term “non-essential Immigration” is if you have
“essential Immigration”, which is a moral claim held by the people
Farage claims to oppose. Who decided that any immigration is essential
and essential to whom? Was it the bankers who actually run the country
or was it the managerial elite who adopted it as a luxury belief? Who
decides what is and what is not essential about immigration?

Here is another example. “All asylum seekers that arrive illegally from
safe countries will be processed rapidly, offshore if necessary.”
Logically, the UK should never receive any asylum seekers as by law and
logic, asylum seekers go to the nearest safe country for temporary
refuge while the home country is in turmoil. The UK is a set of islands
bordered by countries that are stable “democracies” so there can never
be a case where anyone seeks asylum in the UK.

The point of this weaselly language is two-fold. One is it is the
natural obsequiousness that infests all Western right-wing parties. They
have the slave mentality, which means they are always bowing and
scraping before the people they pretend to oppose with regards to the
moral claims of the ruling elite. The other reason is it tend to work as
people just see the headlines and never think about the qualifiers.
Owning the libs is a universal concept in Western democracies.

Of course, putting an entertaining clown like Farage up as the front man
is a great way to distract from this reality. People are mad and lack
the sophistication to understand the issues in detail, so Farage
provides a vent for their frustration by pretending to be on their side,
when in reality he fully supports the moral framework that is the root
cause of their frustration. Farage and his Reform Party are what James
Carville once called “boob bit for the bubbas.”

The genius of the trick is it will work. Reform is now polling within a
few points of the Tories at 16% in the government polls. In other polls
they are in a statistical dead heat with the Tories. If they overtake
them, then the people angry at the system will claim victory for having
knocked out the Tories. Meanwhile, gangs of Muslims are chasing their
daughters through the streets. If Reform flops, then they can focus
their energy on being angry at Labour for a few years.

For Americans, this should sound familiar. The usual suspects co-opted
the Tea Party to become a subsidiary of the Republican Party. What could
have been a threat to the system was quickly neutralized. The current
populist groundswell has been slowly co-opted by oleaginous grifters who
run around wearing red caps and talking about Trump like he is Orange
Jesus. Meanwhile, Trump’s platform is now no different from what Jeb
Bush was offering in 2016.

This may sound black-pilling and depressing, but the white pill in what
is happening with populist parties all around the West is they are
gnawing away at the legitimacy of the system by forcing these reactions.
The dullards in the UK fall for Farage, but there are lots of people who
have gotten wise to this stuff by watching him work. In the U.S., the
Trump phenomenon has opened the eyes of many to the reality of the
system, simply by seeing the system react to Trump.

In other words, the process by which a system loses its legitimacy is
through its various mutations to defend itself from challenges. The
number of people wondering if the system should be saved is a measurable
number now, thanks to the struggle the system has undergone to defend
against even mild reform. The same is true all over as people
increasingly notice the unwillingness of the system to give an inch on
critical issues like immigration and culture.

The old line from Hemingway about bankruptcy being gradually then
suddenly applies to all complex systems. Failed populist uprisings and
Potemkin opposition movements are the gradually portion of the show.
With every failure to get even a tiny concession from the system, the
system loses legitimacy. At some point, and no one ever knows when it
will happen, the suddenly part of the show begins. In order to get
there, you have to work through the gradually part first.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="G//Nltszt3LjIeoU/bt94A==cb7CRZqoGyD5gSxqosQ6fqIpua2FuHe5L8uzSm2F0lM7Np6Ct14CH6AxFy3uRAfBMQc"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Th6qw+CECoGNJNlLlaNSqg==cb7W25CPJ8ABwN0fN7156bQOfrocivLQluCnC93X8JBMIvTeTk8mSHrb8BUd54QmJbi"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
