---
title: "The Witch Hunters"
date: "2024-02-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Progressives
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31522"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31522"
---

In 1692, nineteen people were hanged for the crime of witchcraft in
colonial Massachusetts, the first of whom was Bridget Bishop, a woman
who had been married three or four times and previously accused of
bewitching one of her husbands, leading to his death. She was hanged
after the court determined that she was a witch because she was a
promiscuous liar. There was also the claim that she had a third nipple
that mysteriously disappeared upon examination.

Witch trials were not unique to the colonies or to the Puritans. Witch
hunting became a thing in Europe during the 15th century and lasted into
the 18th century. It corresponded with the great upheavals that occurred
with the breakup of the Catholic Church and the wars that followed it.
It was a terrifying time in Europe and people naturally looked for
reasons as to why it was happening. Naturally, they assumed it was the
result of supernatural forces unleashed by the religious convulsions.

We like to think we have moved past this sort of superstitious madness,
but superstitious panic is part of the human condition. In the 20th
century America experienced the satanic panic. This was when over ten
thousand people were accused of participating in satanic rituals in
which children were abused. The panic was set off by a Canadian
psychiatrist not named Jordan Peterson and his patient who claimed to
have recovered memories of satanic abuse.

Eventually this led to wild claims about the sexual abuse of children at
daycare centers around America. There was the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McMartin_preschool_trial"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">McMartin preschool case</a> where the
operators were charged with all sorts of heinous crimes. There was no
physical evidence, and the charges were eventually dropped after
thirteen years of court cases. There was the <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fells_Acres_day_care_sexual_abuse_trial"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Fells Acres</a> case in Massachusetts,
not far from Salem, oddly enough, where the owners were jailed for the
satanic abuse of children.

The point here is that superstition is still with us. You can see it in
posts like this <a
href="https://globalextremism.org/post/how-the-far-right-spreads-hate-through-gaming/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">one</a> from what amounts to a modern
witch hunting operation. The Global Project Against Hate and Extremism
could just as easily be called the Global Project Against Witchcraft and
Sorcery and make more sense. The words “witchcraft” and “sorcery” have
an agreed upon meaning while “hate” and “extremism” are reduced to
nonsense words by the modern-day witch hunters.

Instead of Old Scratch tempting the morally weak into doing his bidding,
the modern witch hunter tells us it is white kids using magical
incantations to introduce evil spirits into the gaming community. You
see, exposure to certain ideas can cause you to build a death camp, so
Old Scratch has his minions use special magic words and phrases in the
chat rooms of video games. Exposure to these words and phrases can cause
the morally vulnerable to succumb to the charms of Old Scratch.

This may sound like an exaggeration, but it is right at the top of that
post. They have a warning to readers that reads, “Warning: This analysis
contains highly offensive and potentially triggering language and
imagery.” They literally assert that words and images can have a
physical effect on some people. The assumption is the effect must always
be bad, which explains the warning. The only thing missing here is a
reminder that the reader should make sure to wear her special amulet.

The entirety of the hate hunter industry rests on the assertion that
certain opinions must lead to certain actions, not only by the person
holding the taboo opinion, but by those who are exposed to the opinion.
At no point will you see these people argue that the opinions are
inaccurate, beyond some chanting of abracadabra phrases like “race
science” which is supposed to protect the chanter from the opinion. They
never explain how opinion must lead to action.

The closest you get is what amounts to the modern version of spectral
evidence which they call “stochastic terrorism.” This is a novel concept
that claims, “the use of mass media to provoke random acts of
ideolog­i­cally motivated violence that are statistically predictable but
individually unpre­dict­able.” In other words, get enough bad words into
circulation and people will do bad things in response to the bad words,
but there is no way to know who will do the bad things.

Since there is no way to know who will do the bad things in response to
the bad words, the only remedy is to eliminate the bad words. Oddly, the
witch hunters cannot know who will be triggered by the bad words, but
they know exactly which words will do the triggering and who possesses
those bad words. We are right back to examining women for third nipples
by self-declared experts in a field that has no rational basis, only
moral certainty about their own righteousness.

The graybeards will talk about something they call the great
interregnum, a time when interested intellectuals and commentators could
speak openly about subjects like race, intelligence, sex, demographics,
and immigration. This was in the 1980’s and 1990’s when America was
feeling confident. The ruling elite was talking about the end of
history, by which they meant their final triumph of all mankind. The
Cold War was over, and they would lead humanity to the promised land.

The great interregnum ended as Western elites began to sense they were
not leading humanity into the golden age. The rest of the world was
stubbornly refusing to go along with this end of history stuff and
Western critics began to question the sanity of the end of history
business. In other words, just as witch hunting in the late Middle Ages
was a response to the collapse of the old moral order, the modern witch
hunting is a response to the collapse of elite moral order.

The Reformation was the result of an institution that had evolved down a
dead end because it evolved for a world that was beginning to recede.
The social and economic relations that made the Church possible were
giving way to new social and economic relations, so a new moral order
rose up to challenge the old moral order. American liberalism is facing
the same crisis. It evolved for a world that no longer exists and has
unleashed the witch hunters to find the cause.

That is why efforts with grandiose names like the Global Project Against
Hate and Extremism attract money from the elites. They promise to find
those responsible for challenging the moral order and suppressing them.
The gaggle of petty Torquemada’s that have been unleashed are a
rearguard action by an elite that sees itself in crisis and is terrified
by the prospect of an alternative moral order. The modern witch hunters
are part of the death throes of a dying system.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="O/x+ijZCsTXsnwt0o9gHXA==cb72i9D5nrzzH2kpnICyUcK0LPs4lrACTbfPLx7cuZjTKu/psyyRD5k++Byp4Im9r85"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="B/1yzYx0hrDJswbdqPIWKQ==cb7asx7Z5uHUhOIddjYyfCj8Ae17hy97szUD7aOSkx5ZXKdKgeCpGrVZz7gqsT/XAKb"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
