---
title: "There Is Worse Than Hitler"
date: "2024-04-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31844"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31844"
---

If you have paid any attention to British politics, you will note that
what passes for the political right in Britain is more feckless and
ridiculous than what passes for the political right in the United
States. It is one of those things that should be impossible, but once
you look at the recent string of Prime Ministers, you have to accept it
is reality, which means things will inevitably get worse in America. No
matter how much you hate the Republicans, you will have reason to hate
them more.

The Tories are facing what many predict could be a party ending election
this year, as current polling has them winning just a handful of seats.
The Tories currently have a 35% approval number, an all-time low. As a
result, there is a movement afoot to wipe out the party entirely. The
“zero seats” campaign started as a joke but as is often the case, this
joke could turn out to be reality. Italy’s Five Star movement started as
a gag and eventually overturned the political establishment.

Neema Parvini, also known as Academic Agent, has a <a
href="https://forbiddentexts.substack.com/p/zero-seats-the-labour-600"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> up explaining why the end of the
Tory party would be a good result. His argument should be familiar, as
it is the standard analysis you see in dissident circles. The system of
competing parties that we call liberal democracy is just theater. Both
parties are beholden to the same interests and most important, they
agree on all of the big issues. In the case of Britain, Labour and the
Tories are dance partners, not opponents.

Since voting for one team or the other ends up with the same result,
there is no voting your way out of this problem. Sherlock Holmes
famously said, “Once you eliminate the impossible, whatever remains, no
matter how improbable, must be the truth.” This is where the Brits and
the Americans are regarding their parties. Getting positive results at
the ballot box is impossible as things stand. That leaves the list of
alternatives that may seem improbable, but they are at least possible.

One of those options is to crater the false opposition. If the
supporters of the false opposition walk away, that party will collapse.
This then leaves the regime exposed, as it cannot use the controlled
opposition as a fig leaf. Their choice then is to nakedly rule as
tyrants, thus exposing the system as a fraud or allowing a new
opposition to form up among the masses. They would pick the former,
maybe creating a new fake opposition, but at least we would have
clarity.

The opposition to this argument is that things would be worse if the
current theater of democracy is destroyed. Instead of slowly easing over
the edge into the abyss, we would speed into the abyss. This is the <a
href="https://chroniclesmagazine.org/web/worse-is-worse-why-we-shouldnt-root-for-the-demise-of-the-establishment-right/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">argument</a> you see from Paul Gottfried
in response to Parvini’s post. Working to make things worse, in order to
provoke some sort of reaction, could very well end up with things
getting worse, without provoking a reaction or getting an unanticipated
reaction.

Gottfied uses the example of the German communists working with the
Nazis to bring down the liberal Weimar government, because it is
impossible to discuss anything without mentioning you know who.
Fukuyama’s end of history idea was nonsense, but you could argue that
for the collective West, history ended in 1933 when the Nazis seized
control of the German state. Since then, every event has been recast as
a replay or reworking of those events.

Putting that aside, the argument from Gottfried is familiar. No matter
how terrible the right-wing party, it would be worse if they did not
exist. Therefore, the only acceptable solution is to try and fix that
party. That means voting for the most right-wing option in every primary
unless he is a meanie, of course. Then you hope to get enough of these
people in office to take control of the party, before they get
comfortable with the riches heaped on them by the establishment.

This brings us back to Sherlock Holmes. History makes clear that it is
impossible to infiltrate and take over an organization and make it
conservative. There are no examples of this ever happening because it is
impossible. Integral to the radical mind is “what we have we keep” which
means they make a priority of preventing reactionary forces infiltrating
their organizations. It is why they create controlled opposition in
order to police the right facing walls of the regime.

This is why Parvini gets the better of this debate. He does the rational
thing and eliminates the impossible. In Britain, as in America, there is
no voting your way out of the problems of liberal democracy and there is
no way to co-opt any party of the liberal democratic regime. Once these
impossible options are eliminated, the only goal remaining is to topple
the regime entirely. Throwing sand in the gears becomes the only moral
choice when facing an implacably immoral system.

That leaves us with the abracadabra phrase “worse is worse” that
Gottfried thinks is a kill shot in this debate. Since his preferred
course has been the default course and the result has been things
getting worse, what he is doing is offering a false dichotomy between
the worsening reality of his approach and the terrifying but theoretical
outcome he tries to conjure with references to Hitler. While Hitler is
one possible future, it is not the only possible future or even a
probable one.

Western people are like a hockey team down late in the third period. You
can pull your goalie and put an extra skater on the ice, or you can play
it straight. Maybe the other team commits a penalty or has a mental
lapse. If you pull the goalie, things could get worse, but a loss is a
loss, no matter the score. If you play it safe, you will probably lose,
but again, a loss is a loss. The reason teams always pull the goalie is
the possible trade-offs favor that option.

In the context of our politics, abandoning the establishment right is
the same as pulling the goalie in that it opens the door to more good
outcomes. It could so terrify the economic elite that they impose reform
on the system. It could send the system into crisis and open the door
for a real opposition. It could end up with Hitler, but is the death of
the West by Hitler really any worse than its death by bad management?
After all, death is death, no matter the cause.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="dpLFQE5qQsHPlgdZAPlPnw==cb7lpVzsA0qr40FM3KAvYLiQZGVkz2mYqP0OSLDi199fS3TxBoOOmeBSDItjCJBl4ar"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="RWuCPRVTFuEtL8WV4/+qSg==cb7zzzEYDyz/Mxt9VepoGwzLjZVEtDAkXlpmy/ndt7/rDK8ileLW8A1cssd8iNlgZlX"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
