---
title: "Radio Derb November 22 2024"
date: "2024-11-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-11-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33077"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33077"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   02m01s Musk, Friedman, and Milei
-   06m44s The Uniparty strikes back
-   13m56s Masculinity past, present, east, and west
-   20m24s Report from Jim Snow America
-   24m03s The Penny Trial
-   27m29s Jussie off the hook?
-   29m13s Nations of the mind
-   31m47s Advice from the Duke
-   34m45s Signoff  with the King

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/62972800/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Welcome, listeners;
this is your suavely genial host John Derbyshire with edition number 972
of America’s longest-running National Conservative podcast.

I should of course commence by wishing Happy Birthday! to our President
Joe Biden, who turned 82 on Wednesday.

No, I didn’t vote for him. I think his Presidency has been a disaster
and I think the leading elements of the Ruling-Class faction who made it
happen should all be incarcerated and put to hard labor.

Joe Biden’s the President, though; we only get to have one at a time;
umpteen millions of my fellow citizens voted for him; so he’s entitled
to some respect. Happy Birthday, Sir!

President-Elect Trump’s nominations to cabinet and other senior posts in
the coming administration proceed apace. Of [the 27 that need Senate
confirmation](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2024/us/politics/trump-administration-cabinet-appointees.html),
17 have already been named, although of course none yet confirmed.

I’ll take a look at one recent development. First, though, some general
observations on our federal government<span id="more-33077"></span>

**02 — Musk, Friedman, and Milei**.     Elon Musk, preparing to take up
his post in the Department of Government Efficiency, has posted to X [an
interview given 25 years
ago](https://x.com/elonmusk/status/1859230878234206497) to Peter
Robinson by star 20th-century economist the late Milton Friedman, who
was already 87 years old at the time of the intervew.

In the matter of federal government departments, Friedman was a
minimalist. Robinson went through the federal departments one by one,
inviting Friedman to say whether the department should be kept or
abolished. Department of Agriculture? “Abolish!” Department of Commerce?
“Abolish!” Department of Defense? “Keep it.” Department of Education?
“Abolish!” …

We ended up at last with just departments of Defense, Justice, State,
and Treasury, with grudging acknowledgement that the Feds might need
some small involvement in Healthcare.

That would be a huge reduction in the power of the federal government,
even more so now than it would have been 25 years ago. We have more
federal government now than we had then. We have, for example, the
Department of Homeland Security, which, under Secretary Alejandro
Mayorkas, is doing so much to keep our homeland secure.

I totally approve of Milton Friedman’s attitude, of course. It’s
encouraging to know that Musk, who obviously also approves, has the ear
of our President-Elect.

Some commentators have expressed doubts that the Musk-Trump bromance can
endure for four years. I share those doubts. History doesn’t offer many
examples of two strong-willed, energetic men sharing power amicably at a
high level. “There can only be one Sun in the sky …” But we shall see.

In the meantime it’s heartening that these minimalist ideas are taken
seriously by the coming administration. One influence has been Javier
Milei, who will shortly begin his second year as President of Argentina.

One of Milei’s first acts was to [halve the number of government
departments](https://www.newsweek.com/javier-milei-elon-musk-doge-efficiency-lex-fridman-1988947) from
18 to 9, adding only a Ministry of Deregulation. He’s cut government
spending by one-third and laid off tens of thousands of public
employees.

Milei’s efforts are an inspiration, but also a warning. You can’t break
that many “iron rice bowls” without making a lot of people angry.
Argentina’s going through a recession; there have been strikes and
demonstrations.

I doubt the Trump-Musk reforms will bring disorder on that scale:
pre-Milei Argentina was in far worse shape than Biden’s U.S.A. These
things need to be done with skill and tact.

They can be done, though; and there was no way they were going to be
done by Biden and his people — or the Obamas and *their* people, which
seems to be closer to the truth of what we’ve been living through.

So go to it, Mr Trump and Mr Musk! If we do this right, four years from
now we shall be living in a freer, safer, more prosperous country.

**03 — The Uniparty strikes back**.     On the Trump nominations, this
week’s big news was Matt Gaetz stepping down as Attorney
General-designate.

The stepping-down was done with dignity and class. Quote from him,
posted on
X, [quote](https://x.com/mattgaetz/status/1859649045553402285):

There is no time to waste on a needlessly protracted Washington scuffle,
thus I’ll be withdrawing my name from consideration to serve as Attorney
General. Trump’s DOJ must be in place and ready on Day 1.

I remain fully committed to see that Donald J. Trump is the most
successful President in history. I will forever be honored that
President Trump nominated me to lead the Department of Justice and I’m
certain he will Save America.

End quote.

That’s straightforward and gentlemanly. I’m liking Matt Gaetz more and
more.

What’s he going to do now? He was a Congressman, but resigned his seat
when he got tapped for the A-G position nine days ago. The week
before *that*, however, he’d been re-elected to the seat; and under the
rules, he can rejoin the House when Congress convenes on January 3rd. He
told the House Speaker he wouldn’t, but he might change his mind.

Or assuming Marco Rubio is confirmed as Secretary of State, Rubio will
resign *his* seat in the Senate. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis might
then tap Gaetz to fill the seat temporarily pending a special election
for new Senator in 2026 to complete Rubio’s term, which ends in 2028.

Matt Gaetz might also be appointed to some position that doesn’t require
Senate confirmation. There are plenty of those. Trump has already named
a Chief of Staff and four — count ’em, *four* — [Deputy Chiefs of
Staff](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2024/us/politics/trump-administration-cabinet-appointees.html).
Why not five? Yeah, yeah, it goes against the Musk-Friedman spirit of my
previous segment, but for Matt’s sake I wouldn’t mind *too* much.

The reason for Matt Gaetz stepping down was, he told associates
(according to the [*New York
Times*](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/11/21/us/politics/matt-gaetz-withdraws-trump-attorney-general.html)),
that four Senators would vote against his appointment. The four would
be: Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Susan Collins
of Maine and Senator-elect John Curtis of Utah.

No surprise on the first three names there: McConnell, Murkowski, and
Collins are stalwarts of the GOP’s Never Trump faction.

John Curtis I knew nothing about. Looking him up, I see that he has
succeeded to Mitt Romney’s Senate seat following Romney’s withdrawal. To
judge from as much of his political history as I could be bothered to
read, I’m guessing he has Romney’s full approval and support; in which
case, no surprise there either.

Why would these Uniparty hacks refuse to approve Matt Gaetz for Attorney
General? Because the Ethics Committee of the House of Representatives
has been investigating allegations against him: allegations that he paid
for sex with females only a few years into their sexual maturity, went
to parties where drugs were going round,
and, [quote](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cew2z48rp70o), “dispensed
special privileges and favours to individuals with whom he had a
personal relationship,” end quote.

Good grief! Such misbehavior by a public servant! Thank Heaven we shall
never suspect such things of Merrick Garland, Anthony Blinken, or
Alejandro Mayorkas! Our liberties and property are safe
in *their* hands! Not to mention Joe Biden and Kamala Harris …

Matt Gaetz has denied all the allegations. They have, he says, been
cooked up by the many enemies he has acquired in Congress.

I wouldn’t rule that out. [As I noted last
week](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-11-15.html#02),
I don’t think the phrase “team player” fits Matt Gaetz very well;
although when the congressional team has players on it like Senators
McConnell, Murkowski, Collins, and Curtis, not being a team player looks
to me like a positive.

Shall we find out whether these allegations are true? Possibly not. The
House Ethics Committee has, as I said, been doing an investigation and
compiling a report; but when Gaetz resigned from his House seat, the
report was shelved.

Quote from House Speaker Mike Johnson at the time, quote: “We don’t
issue investigations and ethics reports on people who are not members of
Congress.” End quote.

So that’s another reason for Gaetz to not take up his House seat on
January 3rd. Whatever there is in the report, it’ll be newsy and
distracting when the incoming Trump 47 administration really doesn’t
need any distractions.

Matt Gaetz is a fighter, though, and he may want to fight this to the
end.

**04 — Masculinity past, present, east, and west**.     I’m sure I don’t
need to tell you that this Tuesday, November 19th, was International
Men’s Day. The point of the thing is to, quote from their home
page, [quote](https://internationalmensday.com/):

celebrate worldwide the positive value men bring to the world, their
families and communities. We highlight positive role models and raise
awareness of men’s well-being. Our theme for 2024 is “Positive Male Role
Models.”

End quote.

That’s all very positive stuff, although a bit bland. There’s a page you
can link to listing “[30 Great Manhood
Quotes](https://internationalmensday.com/resources/30-great-manhood-quotes/).”
Again, it’s nothing remarkable, but nicely assertive, nothing at all
woke. Sample, from writer and evangelist [John
Eldredge](https://www.amazon.com/stores/author/B0027ICQ28/about), quote:

Men want a battle to fight, an adventure to live, and a beauty to
rescue. That is what is written in their hearts. That is what little
boys play at. That is what men’s movies are about. You just see it. It
is undeniable.

End quote.

So I have no problem with International Men’s Day. I did, though, wince
slightly seeing them quote Mahatma Gandhi on the home page.

I have no problem with Gandhi, either. He was a great man who
accomplished great things. It’s only that I saw that quote just after
reading those allegations about Matt Gaetz having the leg over with a
17-year-old female. If you’ve read [Gandhi’s
autobiography](https://www.amazon.com/Mahatma-Gandhi-Autobiography-Story-Experiments-ebook/dp/B09CVCZD44/ref=sr_1_1) you’ll
know where I’m going with this.

Gandhi married his wife Kasturba when he was 13 and she was 14 — a
perfectly normal thing in 1880s India.

Two and a half years later, when Gandhi was 16, his father died. The
passage in the autobiography that caught my attention when I read it
thirty-some years ago concerns the psychological pain he suffered when
his strong sense of filial piety collided with his adolescent sex drive.

His father was bedridden in his final illness. Gandhi stayed up late one
evening, massaging his father’s feet. Edited quote from the
autobiography, [quote](https://www.mkgandhi.org/autobio/chap09.php):

My uncle offered to relieve me. I was glad and went straight to the
bed-room. My wife, poor thing, was fast asleep. But how could she sleep
when I was there? I woke her up. In five or six minutes, however, the
servant knocked at the door. I started with alarm. “Get up,” he said,
“Father is very ill.” I knew of course that he was very ill, and so I
guessed what “very ill” meant at that moment. I sprang out of bed.

“What is the matter? Do tell me!”

“Father is no more.”

So all was over! I had but to wring my hands. I felt deeply ashamed and
miserable. I ran to my father’s room. I saw that, if animal passion had
not blinded me, I should have been spared the torture of separation from
my father during his last moments. I should have been massaging him, and
he would have died in my arms …

The shame … was this shame of my carnal desire even at the critical hour
of my father’s death, which demanded wakeful service. It was a blot I
have never been able to efface or forget, and I have always thought
that, although my devotion to my parents knew no bounds and I would have
given up anything for it, yet it was weighed and found unpardonably
wanting because my mind was at the same moment in the grip of lust. It
took me long to get free from the shackles of lust, and I had to pass
through many ordeals before I could overcome it.

Before I close this chapter of my double shame, I may mention that the
poor mite that was born to my wife scarcely breathed for more than three
or four days. Nothing else could be expected. Let all those who are
married be warned by my example.

End quote.

I think we can sympathize with Gandhi for the lifelong torment that
incident left him with, while at the same time recognizing that such
torments can be culturally rooted, not easy for men of a different time
or place to relate to.

**05 — Report from Jim Snow America**.     We live in [Jim Snow
America](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2021-07-30.html#02),
with different standards of justice for blacks and for whites. The most
appalling, most horrifying example of this is the case of the Brunswick
Three, which I have commented on many times, most recently in [the
October 25th
podcast](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-10-25.html#06e).

There are many other cases, though. There is, for example, the case of
Ashli Babbitt, the young white female protestor shot dead in the U.S.
Capitol on January 6th 2021. Ms Babbitt was, contrary to what President
Biden and other Establishment spokespersons have said, she was the only
person who died in those protests.

Ashli Babbitt’s killer was a black officer of the Capitol Hill
Police, [Lieutenant Michael
Byrd](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/08/26/us/politics/capitol-police-ashli-babbitt.html).
He shot Ms Babbitt, who was unarmed, at point-blank range, without
warning. There were police officers standing directly behind her.

The Capitol Police conducted an eight-month investigation of the event.
The report determined
that, [quote](https://www.uscp.gov/media-center/press-releases/uscp-completes-internal-investigation-january-6-officer-involved):
“the officer’s conduct was lawful and within Department policy, which
says an officer may use deadly force only when the officer reasonably
believes that action is in the defense of human life, including the
officer’s own life, or in the defense of any person in immediate danger
of serious physical injury.” End quote.

Two years later Michael Byrd was promoted [from Lieutenant to
Captain](https://rollcall.com/2023/08/24/capitol-police-promotes-officers-who-got-jan-6-attack-spotlight/).

This week the investigative website JustTheNews ran an article about
Michael Byrd. The article, based on congressional and police documents,
tells us that Captain Byrd falls considerably short of the standards we
should expect in a law-enforcement
professional. [Quote](https://justthenews.com/accountability/hldcop-who-shot-j6-protestor-has-lengthy-disciplinary-record-mishandled-firearms):

The issues in Captain Michael Byrd’s background included a failed
shotgun qualification test, a failed FBI background check for a weapon’s
purchase, a 33-day suspension for a lost weapon and referral to Maryland
state prosecutors for firing his gun at a stolen car fleeing his
neighborhood.

End quote.

They go into details on Michael Byrd’s various delinquencies and note
that records for some others seem to have gone unaccountably missing
from the Capitol Police files.

Legal scholar Jonathan Turley gave good coverage of this latest news [at
his own
website](https://jonathanturley.org/2024/11/21/report-the-officer-who-killed-ashli-babbitt-had-a-long-history-of-disciplinary-and-training-problems/) on
Thursday.

Following all this I fully expect to hear soon that Captain Byrd has
been promoted again.

**06 — The Penny Trial**.     Another report from Jim Snow America: the
trial of Daniel Penny in Manhattan Supreme Court.

Penny is white, 26 years old, a Marine Corps veteran with no criminal
record at all. He was a passenger in a New York City subway train
carriage in May last year when a 30-year-old black man named Jordan
Neely with a track record of mental-health problems and drug abuse,
entered the carriage ranting, yelling threats — including death
threats — throwing garbage at passengers, and doing his utmost to scare
everyone to death.

Penny came up beind Neely, put him in a chokehold and wrestled him down.
When he let him go, Neely still had a pulse, but he died later. Penny is
charged with manslaughter.

Two different forensic pathologists have testified at the trial: one a
white lady from the City Medical Examiner’s Office, the other a South
Asian gent brought in by Penny’s defense counsel. The lady says the
chokehold caused Neely’s death; [the gent says
no](https://www.foxnews.com/us/daniel-penny-trial-defense-witness-who-claimed-chokehold-didnt-kill-jordan-neely-returns-stand),
it was drugs and Neely’s psychiatric condition.

Hmm. White guy … misbehaving black … choke hold … disputed cause of
death … There’s something familiar about this one.

The Daniel Penny trial is yet another project of antiwhite black
progressive D.A. Alvin Bragg, the same D.A. who sicced the city’s
justice system on Donald Trump, charging Trump with 34 felonies. New
Yorkers are saying openly — they’ve said it to me — that if Penny were
black and Neely white, there’d have been no prosecution.

For some perspective on New York City’s justice system, here’s Ramon
Rivera, a 51-year-old homeless man with a 20-year history of arrests,
incarcerations, and psychiatric hospitalization. Monday morning, taking
a walk across Manhattan, he stabbed to death three perfect strangers.

Four weeks prior to that, October 17th, Rivera had been released from
jail after serving an eight-month sentence for felony burglary and
assault. That very day — the day he was released! — he was arrested
again for petit larceny. A local judge let him go without bail. And now
three innocent people are dead.

**07 — Jussie off the hook?**     One more from the crime log. I’m not
sure this one belongs under the Jim Snow heading, but there’s probably
black privilege lurking here somewhere.

This is the Jussie Smollett case. You’ll recall that Smollett, a black
homosexual, staged a fake hate crime back in January 2019.

In March 2022 Smollett was convicted on five felony counts of disorderly
conduct for lying to police and sentenced to five months behind bars,
along with 30 months probation, a $25,000 fine and $120,000 restitution
to the city of Chicago.

He only served five days, then was released pending the result of an
appeal. Jussie’s been free ever since. Now, after to-ing and fro-ing
with appeals, the Illinois Supreme Court has tossed out the case against
him on a technicality.

It’s not clear to me whether Smollett is now totally off the
hook. [Today’s *New York
Post*](https://nypost.com/2024/11/21/us-news/jussie-smolletts-conviction-for-attack-hoax-tossed-on-technicality/) says
he’s liable for 16 hours of community service and the forfeit of his
$10,000 bail.

Whatever: I’m pretty sure Jussie will be spending no more time in jail
cells.

**08 — Nations of the mind**.     Last week’s podcast included [a brief
item](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-11-15.html#07) about
Japan launching into orbit a satellite made of wood. I closed that item
thus:

\[*Pips*.\]

I can’t explain why, but there is something very *Japanese* about the
idea of wooden satellites. If you had asked me, at any time prior to
this news story, which nation would be the first to launch a wooden
satellite, I’m sure I would have replied — I mean, once I’d stopped
laughing — “Japan.”

It’s something to do with [the generalized
image](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Straggler/109.html) we
carry around in our heads of foreign nations we know only from reading
about them.

Let me give it a try. Which nation do *you* think will be the first to
launch into orbit a satellite made of leather?

\[*Pips*.\]

I got several emails on that, and one or two entries in [the comment
thread at the Z-man’s website](https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33039).

Germany was the clear winner. I don’t know why that should be; possibly
because the Nazis displayed a lot of leather — you know, jackboots and
such. If that’s the reason, it’s depressing. Can we please get over the
Nazis, for Goodness’ sake?

One listener proposed Argentina, apparently because that nation’s
president [favors leather
jackets](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Milei.jpg).
The remainder were all for Scandinavian countries — Sweden, Norway,
Denmark.

Those I *really* don’t get. Only one emailer gave me a reason, one of
the voters for Sweden. The English word “suede,” he pointed out, as in
“suede shoes,” “suede gloves,” and so on, is simply the French name for
Sweden. I confess I did not know that.

**09 — Advice from the Duke**.     Finally, I can’t let that reference
to suede go by without passing on a story I did not know until a
showbiz-savvy listener sent me a link to it in mid-October. If
you *do* know it, you’ll probably enjoy hearing it again anyway; it’s a
great story.

The occasion for that listener sending it to me was, that I signed off
my October 11th podcast with Cilla Black singing the theme song from the
1966
movie [*Alfie*](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0060086/?ref_=fn_al_tt_2).
That was one of the earliest movies with Michael Caine in a leading
role.

Well, here was Michael Caine in a TV chat show six years ago, talking
about his early career.

\[[*Clip*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AoEGTc0XybQ):  I was a week
on my own in Hollywood and I was just … I’d never been to America. And I
was a week on my own and they put me in a luxurious suite in the Beverly
Hills Hotel.

And then nobody ever talked to me or phoned to me. I was just in this
luxury hotel ordering caviare and champagne — all on my own for a week.
And in the daytime I used to go down into the lobby and sit in the
corner to see if I could see any stars. (*Laughter*)

Yeah. And one day a helicopter landed and all the flowers went up in the
beds outside, up in the air, and in walked John Wayne! In a complete
cowboy hat, just like that, look … (*Laughter*) Just like that.

And he was registering in the Beverly Hills Hotel and he looked up and
he saw me in the corner. And he said to me: “What’s your name, kid?” I
said: “Michael Caine.” He said: “Are you in that movie *Alfie*?” I said:
“Yes.” He said: “I saw that. You’re going to be a star, kid.” I said:
“Oh, thank you, Sir.”

And he said: “But let me give you some advice.” He said: “Talk low, talk
slow, and don’t say too effing much. (*Laughter*.) And I had on suede
shoes. And he said to me … (*aside, to another participant*) have you
got ’em? (“*Yeah*,” *laughter*), he said: “Never, never wear suede
shoes.” (*Laughter*.)

I said: “What?” He said: “Never wear suede shoes.” So I said: “Why?” He
said: “Because I just told you, you’re going to be a star, kid.” He
said: “And you’re going to be in the Gents’ toilet taking a pee …
(*Laughter*) He said: ” And the guy next to you is going to be taking a
pee; and he’s going to look and he’s going, ‘Michael Caine!'” (*Much
laughter and applause*.) He said: “And then he’s going to pee all over
your shoes.” (*More laughter and applause*.)

**10 — Signoff**.     That’s it, ladies and gents. Many thanks for your
time and attention, for your comments and emails, and of course for your
donations to help what I do here. The home page of my
website [johnderbyshire.com](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/) has full
instructions for how to donate; just scroll down a page or two to [the
“Introduction” section](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction).

If you know my style you will already have guessed what I’ll be playing
for signoff music. Here he is: the King.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
