---
title: "The White Fortress"
date: "2024-06-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-06-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32194"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32194"
---

It is fair to say that Detroit was one of the first victims of the civil
rights revolution, given what happened to it relative to where it was
pre-revolution. After the war, Detroit was the most prosperous city in
the country. In 1950 the city had 1.8 million people and the highest per
capita income in the country. Then the civil rights revolution unleashed
hell on the city, leading to a collapse of its economy and population.
Motown is now roughly a third of its peak size and gripped by urban
poverty.

Despite remaining the symbol of the urban decline unleashed by the civil
rights revolution, Detroit is not the worst city in America. St. Louis
continues to sport the highest murder rate in the country at 66 per
100,000. Baltimore is always the bridesmaid in the murder Olympics at a
respectable 56 per 100,000. Detroit is third, but the murder rate is 40
per 100,000. That is still ten times worse than the most dangerous
European cities, but well off the pace in America.

Detroit has also stabilized to some degree. A few super wealthy men have
tried to rescue parts of the city from the locals. The billionaire Dan
Gilbert spearheaded the revitalization efforts in the city that have
carved out some green zones that host business and the sports and
entertainment areas. The Ford family continues to play an outsized role
in the city. The result of these billionaire efforts has been to arrest
the collapse of the city and slowly claw back some civilization.

It was not just the generosity of some oligarchs that saved Detroit from
total collapse but also the recognition that the locals cannot be
trusted. The state of Michigan stepped in and suspended the lunacy of
democracy in the city. The city was ushered through Chapter 9 bankruptcy
and an administrator was appointed. Many local politicians were arrested
so they could not interfere in the repair efforts. Ten percent white
Detroit continues to have a white mayor.

When you walk around Detroit now, you can get a glimpse of what lies
ahead for majority-minority America. Like Brazil, Detroit is three
cities. There is the war zone that has been cordoned off as best they
can. Then there is the area where the more stable black population lives
and then you have the economic zone. A weird balance has been struck
where the more stable black population works in the economic zone and
does not get rustled by the measures required to maintain it.

Walk around Greek Town on a Friday night and the thing you cannot help
but notice is the lack of local color. This is the tourist part of the
city located near the big sports arenas and the large office towers. It
is called Greek Town because it was populated by Greeks before the
savages were unleashed by the civil rights revolution. Like everything
created in America over the last half century, Greek Town is named after
what was destroyed in order to make the new thing.

The reason for the lack of local color is the police presence. It is not
just cops milling about like you see in less violent cities. This is the
sort of policing that is intended to be an unwelcome mat for a specific
group. At all of the entrances to the area are cops who man metal
detectors. They select who must go through the detector and then get the
pat down once it inevitably sounds the alarm. One can guess as to who
they select for this special form of inspection.

In fairness, Detroit is not the first city to take this approach.
Baltimore was a trail blazer in this regard, having condemned the area
around the harbor and then handing it to developers and urban pioneers
in the 1980’s. The deal was that pioneers and developers would build a
white fortress to serve as an entertainment and tourist zone, while the
city would provide security. This meant aggressively policing the border
between the green zone and the black zone.

Detroit appears to have used Baltimore as a template, but also learned
from Baltimore how not to screw it up. Got to Baltimore today and it is
a mess. The Inner Harbor is vacant and the former tourist areas are
overrun by locals. Nature is reclaiming that which was carved out of the
urban jungle decades ago. Detroit, in contrast, is holding the line and
that is mostly due to elite support. The oligarchs are not going to let
their investment be swallowed up by the jungle.

It is too soon to know if Detroit can survive with this model. The upper
middle-class white population escaped the city and refuse to return,
unless it is for a ball game, concert or for work. On a Friday night
when there is no major event, Greek Town is a well-guarded ghost town.
You can walk into the best restaurants and get a seat at what is usually
their prime hours. The pricing reflects the fact that the entertainment
industry is built around the major events.

That is the trade-off to politely working around the problem instead of
rudely going after the roots of the problem. There is a lack of
authenticity to Greek Town. It feels like the Potemkin “town centers”
that are now part of the [suburban white
fortress](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-13498083/white-fortress-cities-american-south-wealthy-segregated-communities.html#:~:text=Next-,Why%20'white%20fortress'%20cities%20are%20rising%20up%20across%20the%20South,breakaway%20from%20poorer%20black%20neighborhoods&text=Exclusive%20majority%2Dwhite%20cities%20are,bid%20to%20conserve%20their%20resources.)
that is getting attention from the kooks. They do all the things that
you expect from the organic urban centers of old, but they lack that
hard to describe sense that can only come from the produce of an
authentic community.

It is tempting to think that maybe that is the compromise that will
define the future, but these transactional communities have a poor
record. The reason is the cost of maintaining them is much higher due to
the lack of social capital. People in a new development have only the
investment in their home. They have no investment in their neighbors,
who come and go. Eventually, everyone finds a newer, cleaner white
fortress because the old white fortress is beginning to crumble.

That is what makes Detroit worth watching. It was the first victim of
the civil rights revolution, and it may be the last chance to figure out
how to maintain an urban area within the moral construct of civil
rights. If like Baltimore it collapses under the pressure of diversity,
then there are no arguments left for maintaining the moral framework of
civil rights, but if it survives as a post-modern apartheid city, then
it can be the model for how to maintain civilization in a
majority-minority America.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="znyIhLiLx+fQptyc7X6QXQ==cb7StlR7K2oJfGw7fNY5Ct/CR4zUHsuM8Mzd/V51Q4AU4FKLgRKVCnrbHOTnof3kK7B"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="nyNEf9P7/hCBDkIUbcarFA==cb7l0CeAEt2DCdlxrP1XW6qzz/Awkp7Mp3MFkOT2dR0bfZUT+XzdyEdMhVdoTYVHIka"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
