---
title: "Thoughts On Conspiracy Theories"
date: "2024-07-16T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-07-16T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32327"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32327"
---

Before anyone was sure what happened to Donald Trump on that stage in
Pennsylvania, the conspiracy theorists were hard at work. It is reaching
the point where conspiracy theories are the primary driver of public
discourse. No one can accept the official version of things, so we are
left to create our own versions. Throw in the fact that it is easy to
manipulate digital images, video and sound and we will soon doubt what
our senses tell us about anything in the digital space.

It is fair to say we are living through the conspiratorial age. Fifty
years ago, the only people who trafficked in this material were the
people who lined their clothes with aluminum foil and vacationed at
Dallas. Today, no one believes official narratives, so everyone has
their own theory of reality. If not for conspiracy theories, no one
would have any idea what is happening in the world, as the official
narratives often sound less plausible than the so-called conspiracy
theories.

The term conspiracy itself is a conspiracy of sorts. Many people think
it was created by the CIA as a way of tarnishing those skeptical of
official narratives. In reality the term existed as far back at the
1860’s but was popularized by Karl Popper in his book *The Open Society
and Its Enemies*, published in the 1940’s, which was long before the
Central Intelligence Agency existed. Even so, the term is primarily used
as a way to discredit people who question the official story.

The irony is that the people most fond of throwing around the term
“conspiracy theory” are the people most fond of conspiracy theories. The
media exists, to a great degree, to fabricate narratives, even when the
facts are clear. The great change in the media came in the middle of the
last century with the rise of narrative journalism, called new
journalism, which sought to contextualize the news through the creative
use of narratives into which the facts were fitted.

Of course, it is a conspiracy theory to say that the media works with
the regime to create these narratives as a way to distract people. CNN
posting a <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/politics/live-news/trump-rally-shooting-07-14-24/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">piece</a> about how analysis of the audio
at the Trump assassination attempt suggests there were three different
shooters using three unique weapons is really a plot to insert this
conspiracy theory into the online discourse. This allows the authorities
to dismiss all of the alternative explanations as conspiracy theories.

For a conspiracy theory to gain traction the event in question has to be
anomalous enough to feel unlikely. We do not get many assassination
attempts at the moment, so the Trump event feels like something not to
happen by chance. The other piece of the puzzle is the official
explanation has to seem unlikely. Given that our authorities lie so
much, this piece of the puzzle is now a default. Logic says they lie so
much because they are hiding things they wish to remain hidden.

In the Trump case, there seems to be too many coincidences that had to
happen for that shooter to get on that roof by himself. Sure, it is
probably just crazy luck that he happened to star in a
<a href="https://www.bitchute.com/video/zEUOryEYlKzc" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">BlackRock ad</a> and be the only young person who did
not spend his free time on line, but most people find that unlikely. The
FBI rushing out to say he was just another lone wolf in their system,
one  that always seems to know about these guys before they commit a
crime, also raises eyebrows.

The other aspect to this is the death of the supernatural. When people
believed in the old gods, they could accept the unlikely as the work of
the gods. There was no need to think more about it. Fate is just a part
of life. In the Christian age, miracles were not just an explanation for
the unlikely, but they were also proof that God played an active role in
the affairs of man. Today, Christians say that Providence tipped Trump’s
head to one side so that the bullet nicked his ear rather than ending
his life.

In this age, people assume there is a material explanation for
everything, so that means everything can be explained with actors and
actions, cause and effect. People can accept that it was mere chance
that Trump tilted his head when he did, but they cannot accept the
million unlikely events that allowed that shooter to get on the roof and
take shots at Donald Trump. One coincidence is proof that life is a roll
of the dice, but a string of coincidences is proof of a conspiracy.

Another part of the conspiracy theory phenomenon is that humans have a
natural desire to know who is in charge. Our base assumption, in all
matters, is that someone is the final boss in every story of life. When
an angry customer walks into a store she demands to see the manager. She
does this on the assumption that the manager is the guy calling the
shots. When the space aliens arrived in old monster movies, they always
demanded to be taken to see the leader.

We live in an age where it is unclear who is in charge. The magic of
democracy is it tells people that they are in charge, but that is
impossible, and people sense it, so without a clear shot caller
responsible for what is happening, people naturally look for an
explanation that provides that shot caller. Every conspiracy theory
assumes that there is someone, or a small group, who has the power to
affect the course of history and the foresight to alter those events to
their liking.

The first question after Nursing Home Joe drooled through that first
debate was “Who is really running the White House?” It was clear, and
has been clear for a long time, that Biden is incapable to doing much of
anything. Therefore, someone else has to be making the decisions. Since
our system does not have an answer for this and official sources deny
the question is valid, we have the perfect environment for conspiracy
theories about who is running the government.

Not only does democracy create the conditions for conspiracy theories,
but the liberal tradition is also a conspiracy theory of its own. Once
Western man dropped God as the final boss of the universe, the search
was on for what was the first cause. Theories of history, for example,
are simply attempts to create a compelling story that explains why we
ought and ought not do things. Fairy tales about elves with bags of
natural rights are a way to replace God with a really good story.

Perhaps Francis Fukuyama was right to some degree. The end of history is
not as he imagined it, but instead it is the end of the line for the
West and its quest to find the answer to the great question, who is
really calling the shots? Perhaps we return to the old gods or maybe
some new version of the Christian God. Alternatively, maybe we just
shake ourselves to pieces with conspiracy theories. At the end of
history, the last man is a guy wrapped in aluminum foil staring into a
mirror.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="aSNf1XsWKW2XoYL8UL7cXQ==cb7xl3Ydrf2Lcc34S0gWtYVZqxWM8h8VvOYcWS2ZG+46+ur29dNATkjvAq5R8tqX2Qa"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Ug+TZefqeA7TxQ7sQsAQXA==cb7jQnswJe7btW8GXCZL2CVYaql5o4O+9uFDfwTrAahK7HkTWnQlAY3KIvW7mZdykEE"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
