---
title: "The Ukraine End Game"
date: "2024-04-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31833"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31833"
---

One of the enduring truths about war is that the side that wins is
usually the side that starts with a clear objective. That understanding
of the goal allows for a strategy to accomplish the goal, which then
becomes the framework for the tactics required to implement the strategy
and win the war. Starting with the end in mind also allows for changes
in strategy and tactics to account for the unknown unknowns that are
always a part of a military conflict. No plan survives contact with the
enemy.

We may be about to see this in the Ukraine war. From the start the
Russians have had a very clear understanding of their interests in
Ukraine. This predates the war by about a thousand years. Russia is a
land power without natural barriers between itself and its neighbors, so
the goal of Russian foreign policy since forever has been to maintain
space between Russia and its neighbors. The Ukraine has always been part
of that space controlled by the Russians.

This is why the Russians had clear demands at the start of the war. They
wanted the Russian speaking areas liberated from Ukrainian control, they
wanted Ukraine demilitarized and they wanted NATO out of Ukraine. When
the war started, these goals did not have to change as they were the
reason for the war. The Russians would simply have to do what was
necessary to impose these ends. In other words, once the war started,
the question was *how* not *why*.

This was not true on the other side. Ukraine did not want to go to war
and was ready to take the deal on offer, until Washington sent Boris
Johnson in to convince Zelensky to go to war in exchange for unlimited
money and supplies. Ukraine started the war without any clear idea as to
why they were fighting it because they had no clear objective, other
than graft. Despite the rhetoric, “not losing” is not a goal that can
lead to a successful and coherent war strategy.

The West has had a similar problem. Note that no one in the West is ever
asked by the media why they are doing this. The reason for that is the
answer would be incoherent jibber-jabber about abstract assertions.
Defending a notorious kleptocracy in defense of democracy is obvious
nonsense. The neocons, of course, have a real goal, but telling the
world they want to bring about the end times is not good politics, so
everyone just dances around the fact that there is no stated goal.

This is why the West is headed to a crisis over the war. Without a clear
goal, there is no way to measure success. Without a way to measure
success, there is no way to anticipate failure and adjust to it. The
Russians avoided this my seeing early on that they had grossly
miscalculated. They could see this because they had a clear
understanding of what they wanted to achieve in the war. They set off on
a yearlong process to revamp their strategy and tactics.

It is becoming clear even to the zombies in the Western media that
Ukraine is going to lose the war on the battlefield. The Russians have
been grinding away across the front and are now making increasingly
swift advances. The reason for this is Ukraine is running out of men and
material. Meanwhile, the Russian war machine continues to grow in size
and lethality. There is growing speculation that the Russians are
preparing a hammer blow this summer to break the Ukrainian army.

This is why we are seeing a growing panic in the West. They never
imagined this as a possible outcome because they never thought about the
end. They just assumed they could wish a loss on the Russians. It seems
many in the West still think they can wish hard enough to change reality
on the battlefield. The French actually initiated a call with the
Russians, demanding the Russians quit and go home. Now the French want
to send troops into Ukraine, which would be an act of madness.

Assuming the lunatics do not prevail and there is no nuclear war with
Russia, the question now is what comes next? The one thing we know is
the West will not have a lot of say in the outcome. This is not just
because they are losing but primarily because they never imagined such a
possibility. The reason for that is they have never been honest with
themselves about why they are poking the bear. Like all the other
pointless wars of choice, this one will end in adverse terms.

That is the question that will come to dominate this year. The Russians
do have a plan and they have the means to implement it. While the
Russians have not talked about what comes next, it is clear they will
turn Ukraine into a demilitarized buffer zone with a government friendly
to Moscow. This was the end they had in mind at the start of the war
because it has been the Russian national interest for a millennium. How
much of Ukraine remains in Ukraine at the end is unknown.

This is why the West is in a crisis. This war will make clear to
everyone, especially Western citizens, that the West is in decline.
France, Germany, and Britain are now on the same level as Denmark and
Ecuador, as far as geopolitics. The real global powers will want to have
friendly relations, but they will not consider them peers. In the new
multipolar world, Europe is not one of the poles. Proof of that will be
Russia dictating terms to the Europeans as to their future relations.

The psychological struggle that is about to unfold in the West is what
is the great unknown in what is about to come. How will the typical
Frenchman react when he realizes he is a citizen of a pipsqueak country?
How will the typical flag-waving American feel when he realizes he no
longer lives in a superpower, but in a regional power that is in steep
decline? American exceptionalism takes on a whole new meaning when you
are on the losing side of history.

The point is the end game in the Ukraine war will turn out to be much
more than the final disposition of the country currently called Ukraine.
The end game will be a reordering of the world and a necessary
reordering of the Western view of itself and its role in the world. In
other words, we are about to see a revolution in worldview, one no one
anticipated in the West. Maybe this is why so many Western leaders seem
to want a nuclear war. They cannot face what comes next.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="x3iy9SQ5xkVXhOu2YGoP/A==cb7wolg+vDKAvGDcf9rGFpgqeKBuPzcmqHTNL7ipYm5Jlwj2kvuESv9OY+W5e9e/zh3"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="+ThrShO0I0FixXnwSQatqQ==cb7XwKzT5CpKu8jSmyuamfMCJKbBFBxW6S917au4+kVlO/GoZtVVFiVr+d6YPKBHyiF"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
