---
title: "The Use And Abuse of History"
date: "2024-06-04T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-06-04T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32128"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32128"
---

In the 1976 election, there was a <a
href="https://www.history.com/news/ronald-reagan-republican-contested-convention-1976-gerald-ford"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">scene</a> at the Republican National
Convention that turned out to be a vision of things to come. President
Gerald Ford had successfully fended off the primary challenge of Ronald
Reagan, but at the convention it was clear that Reagan was the more
popular man with the people. The institutional party took the safe route
and backed Ford, but at the convention it became clear that the voters
were ready to move on from the old guard.

This was largely true of the managerial class in America. Corporate
America was pushing for reform against an intransigent old liberal
guard. Wall Street wanted changes to the financial system in preparation
for the emerging global economy and the looming microprocessor
revolution. This
<a href="https://www.amazon.com/Money-Game-Adam-Smith/dp/0394721039"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">book</a>, written in 1976 coincidentally,
talked about the looming revolution in economics that was coming with
computers. Of course, a sizable chunk of the political class was ready
for change.

What the convention revealed was that the public was also ready to move
on from the cultural revolution of the 1960’s and the general political
and economic stagnation that defined the 1970’s. On other words, the
public was in a mood for reform, and they would be willing to take some
tough medicine if the right man was put forth to sell them on it. That
man was Ronald Reagan, who won the 1980’s election and ushered in the
reforms that came to be known as the Reagan Revolution.

There were elements of the institutional left that opposed Reagan. The
media called him Hitler, of course, and spent his entire time lying
about everything. They invented the concept of homelessness as a counter
to the booming economy. The academy was also opposed to Reagan and
responded by diving head long into the antecedents of what we now call
the woke religion. The Democratic Party remained trapped in the past
throughout the decade.

The point of this walk down memory lane is that reform is always a
top-down process that begins with elements of the elite either looking
around and sensing danger or growing restless with the prior generation
of elites. In the 1970’s, there was a little of both as some elites
feared the country was headed to a crackup, while others sensed a new
day was dawning and the old bulls needed to step aside. Once they found
a champion, the reform effort took off.

Fast forward half a century to our time and we can see some of the
elements that existed in the middle of the 1970’s. The world is at some
sort of inflexion point economically due to the underlying currency
arrangements. In the 1970’s the dollar’s status was under assault due to
Western incompetence. Today the dollar is under pressure mostly due to
Washington perfidy. There are serious efforts to reduce the dollar’s
role in the global economy.

You also have a looming demographic change. In the 1970’s the baby
boomers were hitting the labor market and the adult economy like a tidal
wave. Much of what drove the economic revival was the loosening of the
rules so this massive wave of young adults could earn and spend. Today
we are at the other end of that long cycle as the baby boomers exit the
work force. They are not being replaced. Instead, we have diversity
which must be overcome to maintain the economy.

There are a lot of parallels like this. It is the reason that old paleos
like Steve Sailer often compare the present to their salad days. Not
only does it help explain the present, but it is comforting to think
that like the 1970’s, this period of tumult will give way to another
great interregnum, a time of relative peace and prosperity where
politics gives way to practical pursuits. That certainly sounds
comforting but there are some obvious problems with taking the
comparison that far.

The first problem, and the main problem, is the country of today is
nothing like it was half a century ago in terms of demographics. Instead
of having a massive wave of young, smart people ready to build their
future about to enter the system, we have a vibrant tide ready to wash
away the white middle-class. Demographically, America is like the film
*World War Z* where the new vibrancy is <a
href="https://pyxis.nymag.com/v1/imgs/a59/300/31668b76e8d1b9c89f571c4bab19589e33-24-world-war-z-fact-check-3.1x.rsocial.w1200.jpg"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">scaling</a> the walls. No one knows what
to do about it, other than build the walls higher.

Then you have the fact that there are no signs that any element of the
ruling elite is interested in reform. Instead, they look like toadies of
a rock band after a long weekend of partying in a fancy hotel. Theirs is
a life of self-indulgence and their highest goal is to maintain the
system that lets them self-indulge. What passes for an opposition in
elite circles is just geezers and their dim-witted acolytes chanting
catch phrases that ceased to resonate half a century ago.

Now, not all things are discussed openly. It is possible that behind
closed doors in the elite institutions there are top men working the
problem. Perhaps they think AI is the analog to the microprocessor.
Maybe it is genetics that will be the revolutionizing force of this
coming epoch of reform. It is also possible that those are just more
overhyped items in an economy that has been running on hype for decades.
Elon Musk is the world’s richest man because he is the biggest hype man.

Even if there is something happening behind the scenes with the
revolutionary potential of the microprocessor, where is the Ronald
Reagan in the political system to sell the changes that must come with
it? Where is the socio-political movement that could produce a salesman
like Reagan? The political class now looks like that expensive hotel
room the elites partied in all weekend. It is a scene full of sadness
and memories of better days that now seem long gone.

You can probably take this a bit further and suggest that Trump was the
elites vehicle to make the needed changes to stave off crisis. Despite
his faults, he is an oddly charismatic figure, who has wanted nothing
more than to be embraced by the ruling elite of his country. He would
have been a great pitchman for a renewal, but the system has treated him
like an alien virus. Imagine if Reagan had been arrested at the 1976
convention instead of cheered.

Historical parallels are often used to inspire a pursuit of future
greatness and sometimes they are used to command a return to past
habits. We see both in this age as old men like Joe Biden feebly mumble
about the glorious future. We see slightly less feeble old men chanting
about a return to past principles. There is a third way to use history
and that is to show that the present does not have a comforting analog
in the past and therefore we are on our own to sort our future.

That is where the West finds itself now. Those who will make the future
will first have to close the door on the past. The challenges of the
demographic age have no corollary in the past, so the solution, if one
exists, does not live in the past. Put another way, Ronald Reagan,
Margaret Thatcher, and John Paul II are not walking through that door,
so there is no point in leaving it open. The only reason for
understanding the past is to know that it is not the future.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="TgHSmSrtj3FdeIt7Pxioaw==cb7zcksPrbnQf5KMBvMgxrLld4AT480raY/2Y4HJtyAtXKf6C/vrgd4qpdnBiiz6JxZ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="QPd9Zl/3QPDuwYLIMTb5Xw==cb7hjK7Qnhqp+MVvn0hxGkFd+3T+P0fRQMvcSXKCnZa29QnlPV4AWVayxpTuIDAKX6w"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
