---
title: "Tunneling Into The Clouds"
date: "2024-01-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Religion
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31404"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31404"
---

By now everyone has seen the videos of weird looking Jewish men popping
up from sewer grates in New York City. The men were popping out of
underground tunnels built by the Chabad cult in Crown Heights. The city
discovered them in December and was attempting to fill them with cement,
when the Chabad members <a
href="https://abc7ny.com/chabad-headquarters-arrests-secret-tunnel-brooklyn/14301084/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">rioted</a> in an effort to thwart the
city’s efforts. The cops were forced to arrest many of the members and
physically clear the facility of Chabadists.

Needless to say it was the best day ever for the <a
href="https://rumble.com/v463o3x-secret-jewish-tunnel-network-exposed-in-new-york-city.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">antisemites</a>, who naturally looked at
the scenes as confirmation of their claims. It was also a great day on
social media as the jokesters had some of the best material ever. The
images of soiled mattresses being pulled from the tunnels reminded many
that this subculture has long been accused of hiding <a
href="https://www.vice.com/en/article/qbe8bp/the-child-rape-assembly-line-0000141-v20n11"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">terrible things</a>. Of course, the
scolds were out <a
href="https://www.rollingstone.com/culture/culture-news/secret-chabad-tunnels-new-york-1234942995/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">wagging</a> their bony fingers at the
world for noticing what was happening.

Lost in all of this are the questions about who these people are and why
are they allowed to operate in this country. Most news sites just called
the facility a synagogue but it is the world headquarters of the Chabad
cult, which is an international movement that aims to influence
government through the conversion of secular Jews back into what the
cult thinks is the authentic Judaism. This group has centers in every
Western capital and many major cities.

Imagine if white nationalists bought a building in New York City and
declared it their international headquarters. Imagine they imported men
from around the world to live in and around it. The videos online of the
riot tell us that many of these men at this location are foreigners.
Instead of white nationalists, imagine it was supporters of Palestine
doing this. It is a good reminder that providing <a
href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-01-10/desantis-offers-incentives-for-jewish-students-worried-about-antisemitism"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">special status</a> to groups of people
comes with downstream consequences.

The more important question, however, is why has the ruling class
allowed this bizarre international cult to setup shop in the United
States? This cult formed in the 18th century in what is now Poland. They
remained there until the Second World War when the head of the cult
relocated to New York City. The circumstances at the time probably
prevented careful scrutiny, but since then the ruling class has had
plenty of time to figure out whether these people should be allowed to
remain.

Immigration is always a tool of the ruling elite. This was true in the
Roman Empire and it is true in the American empire. Outside of some very
narrow exceptions, immigration is a tool of the ruling class to weaken
domestic opposition. In the 19th century it was used to suppress wages
and prevent unionization. In the current age it is used to maintain the
power of the managerial class by diluting the demographics of the
country and disrupting the formation of natural community.

How does Chabad fit into this scheme? They do not work in the normal
sense which means they are useless in suppressing wages. This cult
operates within the Hasidic community, so they are like an economy
within an economy. They self-segregate, outside of their recruitment of
secular Jews, so they are not showing up in your suburban subdivision to
create problems with the neighbors. What they mostly due is recruit
secular Jews with access to power in order to influence the elite.

Again, this cult has centers in every Western capital. They operate near
the centers of power in the West, so that means they have facilities in
cities like Los Angeles, New York, Chicago and San Francisco. Donald
Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, is a member of the Chabad cult. Given
the scrutiny on Trump, one has to wonder why the media never did a deep
dive on why and how this cult was able to place a member at the center
of global power.

None of this should suggest that Chabad is evil or at the center of an
international conspiracy to destroy the world. The point is that this
extremely bizarre and alien religious movement is allowed to operate
unfettered in a time when Western ruling elites are increasing paranoid
about internal threats. One would think a cult digging secret tunnels
under New York City streets would produce more concern than some
grannies wandering around the capital waving Trump flags.

What all this points to is two things. One is the dynamic of American
society, especially within the managerial class, is a non-linear system.
It is not a top-down system where a small group engineers everything
from the shadows. Instead, there are a lot of players jostling with one
another seeking advantage. The paranoia we see from the ruling elite is
not due to fear of a peasant revolt, but genuine fear of a palace coup
that uses a peasant revolt as a pretext.

The other thing this Chabad business tells us is the ruling class is not
thinking far beyond one move on the board. A strong ruling class would
have packed the Chabad guys off hours after the collapse of the Soviet
Union. Not that Chabad is evil, but that no smart ruling class tolerates
a cult it cannot control. Instead, the managerial elite seems to be
blind to this weird movement. It helps explain why foreign governments
find it so easy to manipulate the political class.

All of this is a good reminder that America has never been a country in
the conventional sense, but rather something like a large distributed
network. The nodes on this network are the power centers that wield
influence in certain areas. These nodes are often networks themselves,
like the news media. The New York Times is the major node within the
news media, which itself is a node on the ruling network. These nodes
influence one another and jockey for power with one another.

As a result, no one is ever really in charge, like we see in Russia or
China, where the state is the dominant power and controls all the power
centers. We saw this with Trump when he was thwarted by the various
nodes within government. When he overcame those problems, he was stymied
by the judicial and corporate nodes operating within the general network
of the managerial class. The ruling elite of America is a mesh network
that operates atop society.

The Chabad people understand this, which is why they recruit members who
can infiltrate these nodes. Most Chabad members do not look like those
guys scurrying out of underground tunnels. They look like anyone else in
society. Foreign governments see this is well, which is why Israel can
have so much influence. China, despite enormous wealth and willingness
to buy politicians has less influence than Saudi Arabia because the
Saudis understand how America really works.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="vrEhENfSOrdacV2aFGJY5Q==cb7tKuPMstYaQKig/UcSy6cnvRdKvQYKb02dnpt5DHTLO/I3D3AITPioVat0qA3Zo7y"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="LuCAUe+tZIblcOCfS2I06A==cb7vkYAJj5IvoFzTJpqNBg2MeyZXHT7m429leg6FGafQeuVdMnYpDc7DlK/PMQ1CxR6"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
