---
title: "Trouble On The Edge Of Empire"
date: "2024-09-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32737"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32737"
---

In the end phase of an empire, there are two political dynamics. One is
the intense, internal politics among the ruling class of the empire.
These are the people fighting to hold onto the power of the empire, but
also fighting with one another to maintain their slice of the shrinking
pie of benefits. The other politics are on the fringe where the
beginnings of alternative power centers grapple with reality and the
decreasing ability of the empire to provide necessary protection.

For the American empire, one of those fringes where politics is
happening as a result of the decline of the empire is Europe. The
Germans, for example, have had a set of local elections that were all
bad news for the provincial rulers, which in this context is the
coalition government led by Olaf Scholz. The parties that make up the
ruling coalition of Germany did poorly, and in the case of the Greens
catastrophically bad, in Saxony, Thuringia and Brandenburg.

Worse yet, the winner, in the public relations sense, was the hated AfD,
or Alternative for Deutschland, which came in second in Saxony and
Brandenburg and won for the first time in Thuringia. The AfD gaining
support is a disaster all by itself, but doing so in Brandenburg is a
fascinating development. This is the base for the SPD, and they needed
shenanigans to prevent the AfD from winning the election. The CDU threw
its support to the SPD to block the AfD.

Another bit of subtext to this is that a new party of former leftists,
in the German sense of the word, has created an anti-immigration party
around Sahra Wagenknecht, called the Sahra Wagenknecht Alliance or BSW.
They came in third place. That means two anti-immigration parties are
surging. On top of that, the Green Party appears to be losing all of its
support everywhere. In Brandenburg they failed to meet the minimum
threshold to gain any seats in parliament.

Of course, the German political elite is not taking this well. As we see
all over Europe, the parties that pretended to be ideological opponents
for years have come together to thwart these outsider parties. Germany,
for example, has been ruled by the “traffic light coalition”, which
would be like the Republicans, Democrats, Libertarians and Greens
forming a new coalition to fend off the Constitution Party in Congress.
It gives the game away to maintain control of politics.

This is the same thing we saw in France over the summer. The
anti-immigration party led by Marie Le Pen surged to the lead in the
first round of elections for the National Assembly, so all of the other
parties teamed up to prevent the Le Pen’s party from winning an outright
majority in the second round. Of course, the parties in this grand
coalition to stop mean words has immediately started to attack one
another because the only thing they have in common is corruption.

As in Germany, the bit above the waterline is the immigration issue, but
beneath the surface there is a bigger issue. The political elites of
Europe no longer look like European political elites. Instead, they are
these weird, cosmopolitan citizens of the world types whose success is
pegged to their slavish loyalty to an international economic elite
centered in London and New York. There is an alienation rooted in their
transnational transactionalism to which the locals are reacting.

Of course, immigration is the tangible manifestation of this.
Immigration only makes sense if the immigrants are a net benefit to the
locals. This only works in boom times when everyone is feeling generous.
It is not boom times in Europe, but the immigrants continue to pour in,
which suggests there is another reason behind immigration enthusiasm
among the political elites. This is where the sterile, technocratic
alienness of the political class comes into play.

It is not just in the heart of the EU where this “us-versus-them”
cultural dynamic is turning up in practical politics. Italy has quietly
started to limit immigrants while not offending Brussels. The Italian
economy relies on transfers from the rich, intelligently managed
economies of the north, so the Meloni government has to tread carefully
in order to avoid regime change. She has managed to remain popular,
while quietly addressing the immigration issue.

At the other end of the EU, the Nordic countries are experiencing
something of a revolution in thought on immigration. Denmark has been
quietly hostile to immigration, but now Sweden is becoming publicly
hostile to it. The Swedish government is now paying immigrants, even
those with citizenship, to leave Sweden. This is an enormous change in
attitude, as Sweden was the most fanatically pro-immigration country in
the EU just a few years ago.

Something that may be working in the favor of nationalist parties and
activists in Europe is the lunacy in the Anglosphere regarding
immigration. Vulgar simpletons like Keir Starmer are a warning to the
continent. Despite having support from just one of every six British
voters, the Starmer government is aggressively waging war on the natives
on behalf of the immigrants. What is going on in the UK and America is
proof that those “far-right” parties are right about what lies behind
immigration.

All of this has been helped along by the proxy-war against Russia. After
the effects of the initial gaslighting wore off, Europeans started to
notice that their political elites were far more enthusiastic for
Ukraine than their own countries. They also noticed that their political
elites were happy to sacrifice the welfare of their people for Project
Ukraine in order to curry favor with Washington. The American empire was
happy to inflict misery on Europe if it furthered their petty fights
with Russia.

Where this has left Europe is as a collection of provinces that no
longer enjoy the protection of the empire but are governed by a
provincial ruling class that enjoys the financial benefits of empire.
The growing awareness of this reality is causing the clodhoppers of
Europe to revolt. The continent is far from breaking free from their
Anglosphere masters, but the politics of Europe are opening the gates to
parties and politicians who will seek liberation from empire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="iVodoRUxrPr+pHbqhX4Ztg==cb756d8n4IxMVBxUu4+n6zQWfysjgioTSI3NsliIvnkGMjpNa+K53eVuw9xhaDBEUPd"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="VhsdeK01IsEDR3vjTYnDIg==cb7NCjnJR/3cM5CXnZIoAefy+7ZbfpBl+IJVC0zdvEUVoCvyNaGS7JLlUc5rXia9qZF"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
