---
title: "A Price For Everything"
date: "2024-02-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31577"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31577"
---

**Note: **Behind the green door is a post about being a jerk, old people
sniffing deli meat at the grocery story and the Sunday podcast.
Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A tenet of the old right was that some things are too important to a
society to be subjected to the crucible of reason. Traditions, for
example, not only bind people to their ancestors, but to one another in
the shared understanding of the past. Treating traditions as mere
superstition inevitably leads to their abandonment and the loss of their
associated social capital. A society without tradition and history is a
temporary, ad hoc collection of deracinated individuals.

Reason is not just questioning and demanding proof. The marketplace is a
manifestation of reason in the exchange of goods and services. Sellers
compete with one another to attract buyers. Buyers compete with one
another through the mechanism of price in order to determine the best
good or service. Reason states that if you have a competitive and open
market, you end up with the best products and services winning over
those of lesser quality or higher price.

The old right would agree to the theory behind open market economies but
point out that some things are too important to subject to the market.
The moral claims of a society, for example, should not be up for bid.
The marketplace would no doubt decide that slavery in certain areas is
the superior option, as it has for all of human history, but we have
decided that owning other humans is immoral. Therefore, we do not make
this moral claim subject to the crucible of the marketplace.

We are getting a real-world glimpse of this with regards to the war in
Ukraine which the Western managerial elite insist is a moral crusade.
Helping Ukraine, they say, is proof that we worship the god called
democracy. The Munich Security Conference just ended and speaker after
speaker insisted that the god of democracy demands we empty our wallets
to help Ukraine. The Danish <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/world/video/2024/feb/19/denmark-sending-its-entire-artillery-to-ukraine-video"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">prime minister</a> went so far as to say
that the West must give all of its weapons to Ukraine.

No one really knows, because the cause is too important to waste time on
accounting, but the West has supplied Ukraine with weapons and money in
amounts many times more than Russia is committing to the war. Hundreds
of billions have been given to Ukraine with hundreds more lent though
various contrivances. The sorts of people who perform at events like the
Munich Security Conference are fond of talking about how the arsenal of
democracy is going to save Ukraine.

The trouble is the weapons supplied to Ukraine have not made much of a
difference and in many cases have been worthless. French <a
href="https://www.thedefensepost.com/2023/07/05/french-tanks-unsuitable-ukraine/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">supplied</a> armored vehicles are nothing
more than expensive death traps. British Challenger tanks are great on
the parade route but unsuitable for actual combat. The German Leopard
tanks were sitting ducks against Russian artillery in the summer
offensive. Despite the economic advantages, Western weapons have not
made much of a difference.

The reason gets back to the tenet of the old right. There is a <a
href="https://www.agenzianova.com/en/news/germania-bild-forniti-allucraina-mezzi-blindati-inadatti-e-a-prezzi-gonfiati/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> in the German tabloid Bild that
takes a look at how Germany is supplying armored vehicles. Instead of
producing or selecting vehicles best suited for the war, it is an
elaborate financial scam that profits the arms dealers and their foreign
suppliers but results in expensive and poorly suited vehicles to
Ukraine. The German taxpayer is paying three- and four-times retail for
equipment that is useless in the war.

To give some perspective, the Russians probably spend the equivalent of
one hundred thousand dollars for an armored vehicle. The Germans are
paying six hundred thousand dollars, but for the wrong sort of vehicle.
This is a pattern that repeats across the Western supply chain to
Ukraine. Either suppliers see a chance to unload useless junk at
inflated prices or their top-line equipment, in the case of Western
tanks, is proving to be ill-suited for the actual fighting.

The Russians, meanwhile, work from that old right tenet. Some things,
like fighting land wars on their border, are too important to be
subjected to the marketplace. There is competition within the Russian
military industrial base, but the winners are not picked by the
invisible hand of the marketplace. They are picked by the demands of the
military for the situations they are facing. One reason Russian arms
tend to be simple compared to American arms, is the military doctrine of
the Russians.

It is tempting to think this old right idea applies only to something
narrow like war fighting, but war fighting is a consequence of other
factors. After the Cold War, the Russians did not embark on a process to
ship their manufacturing base to low-cost countries as happened in the
West. One reason for that is the Russians do not make profit the
singular goal of their society. They set about modernizing their
manufacturing base and now they are reaping the rewards.

This is a pattern we see all over the West. Open borders, like slavery
in the ancient world, are profitable for society, but it erodes the
social capital. It attacks the customs and habits of the people, the
things that bind them together as a people. Once you have monetized the
social capital of the people and carried it off to vaults in New York,
it is no longer available when the crisis comes. It turns out that
national borders should not be subject to the crucible of reason.

The crisis surrounding Ukraine, and make no mistake that crisis is
spilling over into the West now, is a microcosm for what awaits the
West. The reason for that is Western managerial elites turned their
societies into for-profit enterprises. The decision point in every
matter is whether it profits the managerial elite. Even the abrogation
of ancient rights is merely a defense of the bottom line. It turns out
that when everything has a price, nothing has value, not even your
society.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="mvbsUam14VSZIZ9jn419CA==cb7YLsuHSGaYIiV+qTTkmqHQQke+zJVT+QM7W4SoGqNApMPssmB4RT31r9cz0H5OhV3"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="cEjDWby9RbFENbvynE3R1g==cb7lGid/Y67yjt++Ss8jInrsU82adgSVRMdX5o+0FCVGUiAC1+EzxbxsOSblTb62+9g"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
