---
title: "The Myth Of Dual Loyalty"
date: "2024-01-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31360"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31360"
---

Over the holidays, a bit of controversy erupted when in an
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8lIO3B3k7Mo" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">interview</a>, Tucker Carlson noted that certain people,
like Ben Shapiro, are much more concerned about Israel than the people
of the United States. The bat signal was immediately lit, and Israel
supporters started chanting about how Ben Shapiro is a patriot and
Carlson’s criticism smacked of the old dual loyalty “canard” from a
mythical time in America’s past when Jews were forced to live under a
cloud of suspicion about their loyalty.

Because this is the media age, it was not hard to see the invisible hand
of coordination in the responses from the usual suspects. Here we have
<a href="https://twitter.com/andrewklavan/status/1741492207012421811"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Andrew Klavan</a> posting the same thing
as <a href="https://twitter.com/bdomenech/status/1740928650596499536"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Ben Domenech</a>, who posted the same
thing as
<a href="https://twitter.com/KurtSchlichter/status/1740908395304239196"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Kurt Schlichter</a> who said the same
this as
<a href="https://twitter.com/ChrisLoesch/status/1740859951252123788"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Chris Loesch</a> and you get the idea. A
memo went out to their Twitter influencers to boost the idea of Ben
Shapiro being a patriot. The object of his patriotism, however, is never
mentioned.

This is an old trick to avoid the actual question. The pro-Israel lobby
is not addressing the issue at the heart of Tucker’s criticism, which is
that people like Ben Shapiro and his defenders care more about people in
other countries than Americans. Instead, they want Tucker and his fans
to address this made-up idea that Jews were subject to bigotry in the
past on the grounds they have dual loyalty. Instead of addressing the
point, they shift the focus to another topic.

Of course, the concept of dual loyalty itself is the result of a similar
tactic used in the past to shield Zionist from criticism. The “dual
loyalty” concept is a product of the 20th century, created by the Israel
lobby to obscure the fact that we suddenly had this new force in
politics that demanded the government care more about the interests of
Israel than the interests of Americans. People who raised questions
about the Israel lobby got smeared as antisemites.

For most of American history and probably European history, the concept
of dual loyalty was unknown, for the simple reason people understood
that a man who chases two rabbits catches none. You can have only one
true loyalty. You may have conditional loyalty to other people and
ideas, but those conditional loyalties have to give way to your primary
loyalty. You were primarily a Christian, an Englishman, a loyal subject
of the empire or a Jew. That is the nature of loyalty.

That was always the criticism of Jews, that their first loyalty was
always going to be to their people, no matter their conditions. In
America into the 1970’s it was common for people to note, often
approvingly, that Jews stick together. The implication was that they
cared primarily about their people. Jewish comedians had jokes about
this that had a punchline, “but is it good for the Jews” that played on
this well-known and generally accepted reality of the Jewish people.

It should be noted that into the 20th century this was same reasoning
was applied to Catholics, who were assumed to be primarily loyal to the
Church. This was a carry over from the schisms within Christendom.
Protestants in Protestant countries could accuse Catholics of being
loyal to the Pope rather than the king. Even today, Catholic judges have
to answer questions about their faith. Jewish liberals attacked Amy
Coney Barrett for being a faithful Catholic, especially on abortion.

The clever trick about this “dual loyalty” stuff is it not only shifted
the focus from Jews onto their critics, but it made noticing what
everyone, including Jews, had accepted for hundreds of years into a
taboo. Noticing that Ben Shapiro was an emotional wreck over the Hamas
attack, but he blatantly states that he does not care about the health
and welfare of the white people is somehow immoral. It is a form of the
motte-and-<span enable-toggle-animation="true"
extra-container-classes="ZLo7Eb" hover-hide-delay="1000"
hover-open-delay="500" send-open-event="true" theme="0"
ved="2ahUKEwjouOnP5L6DAxX4SDABHf4hBBkQmpgGegQIJhAD"
data-width="250">bailey</span> argument that is so popular with the
Left.

Of course, guys like Ben Shapiro and Joel Pollak do not have dual
loyalty, despite having dual citizenship. It is impossible to have dual
loyalty. Their primary loyalty is to their people, which is why they
wear the funny little hats. That is the point of the hats, to tell the
world they are not of the world, but separate. This is an age-old way
people identify with a specific group and show their loyalty to that
group by physically separating from everyone else in society.

There is nothing immoral about this and there is nothing immoral about
noticing it, but it does raise questions, which is why we have the “dual
loyalty” stuff. Tolerating a minority whose primary interests lie
outside the majority must be limited. That limit is the interests of the
majority, whose primary loyalty is to themselves. It means Ben Shapiro
cannot pretend to speak for the interests of the majority. He must
appeal to them as an outsider on behalf of outsiders.

This creates an obvious problem, so what people like Ben Shapiro prefer
to do is conflate the interest of Americans with the interests of Israel
so that questioning the behavior of Israel is equivalent to burning the
American flag. To their credit, this rhetorical game has worked on many
people. Anyone questioning the proportionality of Israel’s response to
the Hamas attack or criticizing the wholesale killing of civilians is
unironically accused of being unpatriotic.

The fact that Tucker has not been hurled into the void over this speaks
to the changing nature of public consciousness. America and the West are
heading into a time for choosing in which people must think about the
question of loyalty. Are you more loyal to an abstract concept or to
people who look like you, sound like you and share your same concerns
about your community? We are entering a time when people begin to think
about their hierarchy of loyalties and their identity as people.

It also speaks to the fact that the old pseudo-loyalties are breaking
down. When the concept of American has been watered down to the point
where it often means caring more for strangers than your own family, it
is not hard to see why increasing numbers of Americans are no longer
moved by calls to patriotism. Ben Shapiro waving the American flag and
Israeli flag in front of the suckers is not working because the suckers
are no longer moved by the American flag.

It is natural for minorities to put the interests of their minority
group first, as their identity is tied to their minority status. In a
society composed of minorities, there can be no patriotism as everyone’s
primary loyalty will be to their group, so the good of the whole is
always a secondary consideration, if it is considered at all. In other
words, America will be populated with people who think about their
people, just as Ben Shapiro thinks of his people, but they will just
wear different hats.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="G3jtOhBcspvuUyDt+xyh6Q==cb7ih1e2PXo0QJ9mvnoNck5EqDwfaKniaDnC+EFDH7fCKSWz0yDXOoRhIT2RoHvVsgD"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="KCAFHz1IZJJ48iwuHduNow==cb7KPrj9MPgO5vb0e9xdKtCHMh2OVgQ8542LLGhDFB036GpjXcZRAKUKA/yBH88/oq9"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
