---
title: "A Very American Scam"
date: "2024-04-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-04-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31838"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31838"
---

For fifty years abortion was a part of the national political debate due
to the fight to overturn Roe v. Wade. Those who opposed abortion sought
to overturn this court decision, thus returning the issue to the people.
The pro-life side assumed they could win the argument and get laws
passed to end most abortions. The pro-abortion people obviously fought
to prevent this, even though they always claimed the vast majority of
the people saw abortion as a holy sacrament.

Abortion was always a good money maker for Conservative Inc. because on
the one hand, they only had to pay lip service to the moral issue. It
was not as if they could pass legislation or change a regulation to meet
the demands of their voters. The courts would just strike down those
changes. On the other hand, the only path to victory was getting a
majority of pro-life people in office, especially the White house, so
the courts could be stocked with pro-life judges. That meant voting
Republican.

The way the two party grift has worked since the middle of the last
century was that the Democrats conjure novel ideas and find creative
ways to normalize them with the progressive segment of the population.
Once these ideas gain circulation, the Republicans pretend to oppose
these new ideas. Both sides squabble over it, thus narrowing the options
to their preferred positions. Then they aggressively fundraise off it as
the novel ideas are slowly implemented.

The genius of this arrangement is the elites get what they want, while
both parties protect themselves from outside threats by sucking all the
oxygen out of the room in their endless media debates. With the oxygen
comes the money, which keeps both camps in the lifestyle they think they
deserve. Just as important, none of that money goes to anyone who has a
third opinion. The political rackets rest on every issue being reduce to
a binary choice.

Here is where you can see why the ruling class hates Trump. When he ran
for office, he went to the pro-life crowd with a rational offer, rather
than the old offer they have always got from conservatives. He told them
he needed their vote and even though he was not one of them, he would
deliver for them because he needed their vote. Social conservatives,
outside of the professional ones, saw this as a rational offer and maybe
better than what they have gotten for the last fifty years.

In office, Trump did what he saw as the rational thing and set about
appointing pro-life judges up and down the system. From his point of
view, this made perfect sense as he would need the support of these
people in the next election. If he could show he delivered, then they
would come out in droves. His good fortune was that things broke in such
a way that the court finally overturned Roe. Both parties hate him
because of things like this that disrupt the political rackets.

Putting that aside, the overturn of Roe was a disaster for Pro-Life Inc
and the elite of the social conservativism rackets. They no longer had
this issue to use in their fundraisers, other than to wage battles at
the state level. Since the leaders of these rackets live in swanky homes
around the imperial capital, heading out to the wilderness to help the
Dirt People wage political fights is horrifying. This idea is equivalent
to Pol Pot sending the intellectuals out to the rice fields.

Since the court sent the issue back to the states, the people running
for national office no longer have a reason to primp and preen about
abortion. If the national candidates stop talking about abortion, the
associated money rackets no longer have a reason to raise money to help
“their candidates.” That means the money givers no longer have a reason
to give money to these guys. Suddenly, thanks to Trump, a billion-dollar
industry is threatened with extinction. What to do?

This is why we now have the mass media claiming abortion is the most
important issue on the minds of voters. If a Democrat wins a race for
dog catcher in East Podunk Missouri, the Washington Post has a pic of
young females standing in line to vote, with the claim they are there
because of abortion. The political experts, who are always wrong about
everything, rush in to explain how this is a threat to Trump as women
too busy in their cubicles to have sex are furious about abortion.

It is all nonsense, but despite the fact the media is nothing but a
firehose of lies, people still fall for these tricks, especially people
who call themselves conservative. Integral to being a conservative is
accepting without question the opinions of your enemies while endlessly
tone policing your supporters. If the New York Times announces that the
cool kids are now wearing flowerpots on their heads, conservatives will
swear it is true and produce the conservative case for flowerpots.

This is where Conservative Inc. has swung into action on abortion. Their
new scheme to re-nationalize the issue is to champion a national ban on
abortion. You see, their big idea now that the courts sent the issue
back to the states, something conservatives argued for since Roe, is to
take it back from the states and pass a bill that bans all abortion at
the federal level. Of course, they cannot do this without your support
so make your check out to Conservative Inc.

The only way such a scheme could ever happen is if the Republicans had a
huge majority in the House, a super-majority in the Senate and had a
pro-life president in the White House. Thanks to Republican support for
open borders and election rigging, this is now impossible. Even if it
did happen, the Bush years tell us that they would fink on their voters
anyway. Remember fake evangelical George Bush nominating pro-abortion
Harriet Miers to the court?

Abortion is a good example of why moral issues cannot be decided through
any sort of democratic process. Even if the process is legitimate and
the participants come to the issue in good faith, you will not get
universal agreement. If such an agreement were possible, it would have
happened organically and then the only politics around the issue would
be about the best policy to support the moral consensus. Otherwise,
there is no debating someone out of their sense of right and wrong.

This is why the scam that is the American political system loves moral
issues like abortion, because they can never be solved politically. This
means they can frame it as two sides with neither side ever having a
chance to fully win. Roe was manna from heaven for Conservative Inc.,
but now the overturning of Roe is manna from Gaia for the aging
spinsters running the feminism rackets. They can finally stop talking
about men in dresses waving their genitals at children.

If one is looking for a white pill in these dark times it is that the
abortion issue has finally returned to its natural place. Like all moral
issues, it is one that must be decided by the collective agreement of
likeminded people. This means it is a local issue. States and localities
can then treat abortion the same way they manage other thorny moral
issues like the location of gentlemen’s clubs. In the end, sanity
prevailed, and abortion has become something for communities to resolve
on their own.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="on/1IGA7VI7v5VJ5BgrDgg==cb7Z0CGJ/yt9GhmtnmI/ydj7oxXY14zuNiW/29ltTBP14T/eXGyIXWPL6wh5UBtCE9b"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="sgZOjnhht/NQ3oyuphlO5w==cb7Q1FBlaDFzoHuSPy2U0W7A2x8ilyld+sVzLRzZF1OaHdJv7j9NWOsPDCU8MdSplFQ"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
