---
title: "Death By Openness"
date: "2024-09-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32729"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32729"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door I have a post why you should fill up
your diet with seed oils, a post about losers and the Sunday podcast.
Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the early days of the internet, people started to notice that there
was another side to the mass accumulation of information online. The
information piling up in databases and data centers was not just public
information, but also what had always been assumed to be private
information. Pictures of your home and maybe even you outside cutting
your grass could now turn up in the public square, without you knowing
it. Lots of things about your life were now public information.

Suddenly, a degenerate with free time could figure out things about you
that he could not know in the past. Of course, this became a temptation
for people to nose around in the lives of coworkers and neighbors. The
more information that piled up online, the less privacy everyone could
expect. Quickly we were moving into glass houses and subjected to the
[unwanted
gaze](https://www.amazon.com/Unwanted-Gaze-Destruction-Privacy-America/dp/0679765204).
The only place where you can be free of the gaze is in your own mind,
and even there the synopticon is hunting for data.

Of course, in typical American fashion, the same people gathering up
your private information and making it public now sell services to keep
your private information as private as possible in this age. On the
other hand, people told by the state to gather your private information
for things like banking are reckless with their security, so it is
regularly stolen and published by gangsters. Again, in typical American
fashion, the reckless people never pay a price for it.

We are quickly reaching the point where nothing is private and anything
of private value will be stolen. One result of this is no one cares
about the private. The rise of profilicity is a response to the collapse
of individual privacy. Since no one has a private life, what
distinguishes us is the public profile we create. This profile is just
about disconnected from the person playing the profile. In other words,
the collapse in privacy has eliminated the value in having private
things.

It is tempting to blame this on technology, which is the mistake made by
privacy advocates in the last century. In typical American fashion, they
assumed there was a mechanical solution to a moral or spiritual problem.
In the case of privacy, they assumed new rules to guard your privacy
would prevent the people who laugh at the concept of a rules-based
society from harvesting your privacy. Unsurprisingly, privacy has
collapsed despite the rules.

The reason for the collapse in privacy in America goes back to the civil
right revolution in the middle of the last century. When the ruling
elites transitioned from a rights-based moral framework to the civil
rights moral framework, they had no choice but to abandon the concept of
personal privacy, despite claims to the contrary. This is why Europe has
been much better at enforcing privacy laws. They never had a civil
rights revolution, so they have not fully internalized its moral
structures.

The way to understand this is to think about the moral spectrum in the
political order of 19th century America. The “good” pole was where the
state played no role in the decisions made by the citizens. People were
on their own to sort things. The bad pole was where the citizens needed
permission to do things. The concept of individual rights was not to
carve out a free space for the citizen. It was to carve out space for
the state to do the narrow purposes of collective security.

The civil rights revolution in the middle of the 20th century abandoned
this old spectrum, which had been discredited, at least in the
collective reasoning of the emerging managerial class, in the great
struggle against the economic crisis of the 1930’s and the war on
fascism in the 1940’s. What the civil rights revolution did was replace
this old and largely civic moral paradigm with a new paradigm. The goal
of which was not maximum liberty but maximum access.

The open society concept, popularized in America by Karl Popper and now
George Soros, is the end point of this new moral paradigm. The new poles
are openness, access, and diversity at the “good” end. The bad end is
discrimination, which can only come through the mechanism of barriers to
entry, so the ultimate bad thing in this new society is the locked door.
The goal of the open society is to find every locked door and bust it
down in order to maximize openness.

One of the immediate results of this moral revolution at the top was the
end of public discrimination through the violent overthrow of the old
segregation systems, in both the North and the South. What followed was
pogrom after pogrom to breakdown every locked door that could be found
in private America. Men’s clubs, for example, were forced to accept
women or face endless litigation for discrimination. The Boy Scouts were
handed over to pedophiles for the same reason.

Long before degenerates were googling your name looking for private
information, the state was hunting around for locked doors on the
assumption that there were private people collectively closing
themselves off from others. If one wants to look for the logic behind
the claim that nonwhites have a right to access white people, it lies in
the fundamental logic of the open society. In a world where
discrimination is the ultimate evil, everyone has a right to everyone,
even their intimate life.

There is, ironically, a private benefit to this. Certain members of the
ruling class benefit through the anathematization of preference. In a
world where it is immoral for you to prefer not to associate with
certain people, it is unacceptable for the masses to prefer that certain
people not have access to power. At the same time, the ruling class as a
whole benefits from the fact that it is close to impossible to organize
opposition when everything must be done in plain sight.

The collapse of privacy is the logical outcome of the civil rights
revolution and the synopticon that has involved to enforce it is a
practical necessity. Humans are naturally self-organizing and naturally
self-segregating. Unconscious bias is not just a weapon to compel
submission to the new racial hierarchy but a way to condition the
populace to question their own minds. A people who naturally feel in
conflict with what they are told is the shared collective morality will
remain docile.

Of course, much of the behavior from the ruling elite in the open
society is designed to prevent asking basic questions, like who says
discrimination is bad? Who or what is the moral authority for this
claim? Why is diversity good? Why are my preferences less valid than the
person on the television preaching about diversity? The collapse in
individual and collective privacy makes it much easier to hunt down
those asking these questions before they get too much of an audience.

The ultimate question is can such a system last? There is a reason why
there are so few prison riots and history has not been kind to slave
revolts. It is not just force that keeps the prisoner under control or
the slaves from revolting. In every prison, inmates outnumber guards.
Slaves always outnumber the overseers. What keeps them under control are
the moral chains that tell them they deserve their position. A nation in
such chains is as unlikely to revolt.

On the other hand, if the prisoners know the guards cannot rely on the
state to protect them, the prisoners will begin to question the morality
of their position. Similarly, if the social structures that make slavery
possible collapse, then the slaves quickly overthrow their masters, even
if it means their own death. One of the consequences of the open society
is a deeply paranoid and conspiratorial ruling elite. They know more
than anyone how near run things are for them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="rG7beq95ny2jKmKDYLniuA==cb7/VhoiEvR3Ndl1K8qYskHEnlw96lJayOxBDsQICCCvzUJe7bgumBOCjmmDG8QG9uF"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="SsIfTy2WQLYhVBCGKxWYRQ==cb7twk18q8KOP2+yp6djk9c7jVIOtH74vQb9D592ROZo8O93N/LeaOH3bd3a6iHDjGO"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
