---
title: "The Empire Of Lies"
date: "2024-06-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-06-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32161"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32161"
---

One of the defining features of this age is the collapse in respect for
the spirit of the laws through the reinterpretation of the letter of the
law. In every aspect of life, clever schemers are either crafting
documents that conceal their intent or they are reinterpreting commonly
understood words and phrases so they can claim some new intent behind
the words. This is driven not just by a disrespect for the intent behind
the words, but a disregard for the very idea of rules.

The spirit of the law, of course, is the intent behind the rule, while
the letter of the law is the almost always imperfect implementation of
that motivating spirit. Originalism, for example, rests on the
assumption that we can know the intent of the Framers when they wrote
the Constitution, even if the result is not always clear. Debates over
the Second Amendment are a good example. We know what the framers meant
by “well-regulated militia” even if it is a vague term today.

Now, the Second Amendment issue is a good reminder that clever
tricksters have always been trying to nibble away at the fabric of
American society. Disrespect for the spirit of the law is not a new
thing. Since the first written laws there have been people trying to
twist the written words to get around the intent behind them. It is an
argument against having a written constitution. It gives the tricksters
an opportunity to play their word games on the trusting public.

The 2A topic, however, shows the limits of such games until recently.
Despite their best efforts, the intent behind the Second Amendment has
prevailed because the people and the bulk of the ruling class continued
to respect the spirit of the law. Even something like abortion rights,
which was invented by the court fifty years ago, tried to tie the new
entitlement to the prevailing spirit behind the Constitution. Respect
for the spirit of the laws is the cornerstone of a civilized society.

That respect has largely vanished over the last few decades. You can
probably date it to when Bill Clinton famously tried to claim there was
some ambiguity in the word “is” during his famous deposition over the
intern business. A decade prior he would have been run out of town for
such outlandish behavior, but in the new age where anything goes, the
finest people cheered his willingness to find a loophole in the
vocabulary in order to slither free of the net.

Of course, the arrival of these grifters from the Ozarks coincided with
the arrival of the new managerial man. This is the highly credentialed
expert with no practical knowledge, who slithered up the social system
by making the right connections, belonging to the right groups, and
flattering the right people. These are people who traffic is word play
in a world where genuine accomplishment is a liability. Therefore, the
better you are at escaping the restraints of the language, the higher
you rise.

We have a practical example of this in Ukraine. The Russians have made
clear that if NATO forces attack Russian forces from bases in NATO
countries, the Russians are then free to attack those NATO bases. By all
reasonable measures Russia could treat NATO as a belligerent just for
supplying arms and intelligence to Ukraine, but they have drawn the line
a bit further back. If NATO attacks Russian forces from NATO countries,
then Russia will hit these bases.

This presents a problem for NATO, which would like to supply fighter
jets to Ukraine, but Ukrainian pilots cannot fly the F-16 and Ukrainian
airports cannot host of the planes, due to logistics and the threat of
Russian missiles. That means the only way to put the F-16’s into service
is to fly them with Western contractors out of NATO bases, but that runs
into that Russian red line. So, the tricksters that now dominate the
West have set to work on a workaround to this problem.

The solution is <a
href="https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-war-f16s-39c72290915d9589e468be088769afca"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this</a>. They will give the planes to
Ukraine and then the Ukrainians will decide on their own to keep the
planes at NATO bases. When they use these planes, the mercenaries
wearing Ukraine patches will then fly the planes to a Ukraine base to be
loaded with missiles, then take off from that Ukraine base to attack
Russian forces with those missiles. You see, according to the letter of
the law, this is not NATO attacking Russia with NATO weapons. It is
Ukraine doing it!

Obviously, the Russians are not going to be tricked by such nonsense,
but it reveals the thinking of the moral nullities who now dominate the
West. Only people with no concept of right and wrong can think such a
scheme is acceptable. These are people who always look for a way to
slither around the rules by playing word games to evade the spirit
behind the written rules. These are people who can talk themselves into
anything because they are sure they can talk their way out of anything.

In a high trust society, there is less of a need for putting things in
writing as the parties to an agreement come to that agreement trusting
that the other party will respect the spirit of the agreement. A
handshake agreement works when the men shaking hands trust one another
to keep their word and they live in a society that respects the spirit
of the law even when the letter of the law is confusing. In that
society, writing things down serves only as a reminder to the honest.

In a world dominated by tricksters, who profit from finding ways around
the words in order to undermine the sprit those words attempt to
capture, the language becomes a weapon wielded by the guilty against the
innocent. Notice that the lawfare campaigns all rest on the novel
interpretation of the law, in direct contradiction to the spirit behind
the laws, or the imaginative use of language to redefine common
practices into violations of those newly reimagined laws.

This seems to be an end point of managerialism. In the accelerated
lifecycle of fascism, they quickly arrived at a point where clever
tricksters like Albert Speer were able to rise to senior positions.
After the death of Stalin, the foxes came to dominate the party system
to the point where even the people benefitting from it joked about the
profound dishonesty of Soviet life. America seems to have arrived at a
similar point, where only the naive are shocked by the rampant perfidy.

On the other hand, maybe all empires succumb to the liars who see empire
as an opportunity to do their worst. A society held together by force,
or the fear of the alternatives is not one that can respect the spirit
of the law. As a result, empires may simply select for the sorts of
people who eventually subvert the host. Maybe that is what we are seeing
with the collapse of social trust. The empire of lies is the final stop
for every empire on its way to the dustbin of history.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="p+HyJ8/1TtNeFOoMvE4sQw==cb7NvusI+MKLe1rnzk789BevIeNF2GXZvjasgUISyM/MZQJKxv8GcqI6uaCx3w1d2MV"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="6vmhguemRUvy7MUvYOqtOw==cb79kNtankGe3OubWq0xAhGchVVOuhYubdmvTpOdgLejCGzZ/1MoDRCPwV+19uDLZ2o"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
