---
title: "The End Of the Line"
date: "2024-03-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31733"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31733"
---

In his
<a href="https://usa.usembassy.de/etexts/democrac/49.htm" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">farewell address</a>, George Washington cautioned
against the habitual hatred or the habitual fondness toward other
nations. The former is easily understood, as hatred for other countries
can lead to wars that are against the interest of the people. The latter
is less well understood. Having strong relations with another country
seems like a good thing, but if taken too far it can easily lead to
compromises that harm the people and also create animosities with other
countries.

If your country is predisposed to trade with Country A under favorable
terms, but not with Country B, the latter is going to assume this is due
to some animosity and maybe consider you to be a hostile adversary. On
the other hand, the friends of Country A will naturally assume they
deserve the same consideration as Country A. The adversaries of Country
A, of course, will naturally assume you to be their enemy. When a
country makes an ally, it assumes the ally’s enemies.

This was the crux of Washington’s message. relations with other
countries must always be measured against the yardstick of national
interest. A temporary alliance with another country is good business if
it is good for the people and it does not bring with it long term
complications with other countries. Open-ended alliance by definition
will bring long term complications, which is why they must be avoided.
This is where the phrase “entangling alliances” originates.

We may be seeing this play out with the open-ended relations America has
had with Israel for the last half century. Both political factions in
Washington find themselves lashed to an Israel government committed to a
policy in Gaza that most of the world sees as a genocide of the
Palestinians. The defenders of Israel will dispute this, but that does
not alter the political problem for Washington. Most of the world
opposes American support for Israel’s continued attacks on Gaza.

Last October, both factions in Washington were tripping over one another
to show limitless support for Israel. Then the growing Muslim population
in the United States, imported by the two factions in Washington,
started to rebel against the Democrat side with protests and boycotts.
The Republican side found that their voters were not all that interested
in this project. In fact, there is a growing anti-Israel faction
developing within the populist grassroots of the Republican coalition.

That may be why Chuck Schumer just gave a <a
href="https://apnews.com/article/schumer-netanyahu-israel-palestinians-elections-1ebf21e4c9c0f6f42478bb26e1db7a9b"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">speech</a> condemning Israel Prime
Minister Bibi Netanyahu, demanding new elections in Israel. This is
something that was thought impossible six months ago. The Israel lobby’s
lock on both parties is such that no one would have dared speak out this
way. Clearly, concerns about the impact on the coming election in places
like Michigan is part of it. Schumer is trying to split the Israel lobby
by isolating and attacking Netanyahu.

Joe Lieberman was quick to <a
href="https://www.foxnews.com/media/lieberman-dings-schumer-netanyahu-remarks-would-do-sunak-zelenskyy"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">condemn</a> Schumer for his “attacks” on
Israel. Amusingly, Lieberman is defending the grotesque double standard
applied in favor of Israel by claiming that Schumer is not applying the
same standard to other countries like Ukraine and Britain that he is
applying Israel. Of course, Donald Trump, hopelessly trapped in the last
century, is <a
href="https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4537837-trump-goes-after-schumer-for-netanyahu-criticism-democrats-are-bad-for-israel/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">attacking</a> Schumer thinking this
pleases his base and it will get Israel money flowing his way.

The trouble for both sides of the political class is exactly what
Washington warned against in his farewell address. This open-ended
commitment to Israel creates unnecessary enemies and strains necessary
alliances. The most important country in the region is not Israel, but
Saudi Arabia. Support for Israel in this war in Gaza may be the final
nail in the coffin for this long profitable relationship. The
petrodollar is the cornerstone of American hegemony around the world.

For a long time, this open-ended relationship with Israel was
sustainable because the United States was the lone superpower. Everyone
had to do business with the Americans, even if they did not like it. The
Saudis needed American protection and financial support, so they had to
turn a blind eye to the Israel problem. The rest of the Arab world saw
what American power could do in Iraq and to Iran and wanted no part of
that, so they looked the other way as well.

The world is quickly changing, and this open-ended relationship is now
becoming another liability for the American empire. In fact, Israel is
making Washington look feeble by refusing to back off their war in Gaza.
The rest of the world sees a pipsqueak country leading a supposed
superpower around by the nose. In other words, this is not just bad for
business in the Middle East. Washington’s Israel problem is becoming a
global embarrassment for the American empire.

This is the problem with empire. Empires function as protection rackets,
which means defending weaker powers. Those weaker powers, however, must
be tightly controlled or otherwise they will pick fights that must be
fought by the empire. We got the Second World War largely due to Britain
making an open-ended commitment to Poland, which went out of its way to
pick fights with Russia and Germany. Israel is now threatening to start
a wider war unless it is allowed to wipe out Gaza.

It is also a great example of what Washington warned against. The
habitual fondness for Israel has made America a slave to the policy
preferences of Israel. Worse yet, it has institutionalized foreign
lobbying in Washington. One reason politicians care more about foreign
countries than America is it is far more lucrative. Our “friend” Israel
is happy to shower your representative with cash if he puts the
interests of Israel ahead of the interests of you and your community.

Washington wrote, “The nation which indulges toward another an habitual
hatred or an habitual fondness is in some degree a slave.” America has
been a slave to Israel for a long time, but even a slave will revolt
when his survival is at stake. That may be what we are seeing with the
Schumer speech. This open-ended relationship with Israel is threatening
American hegemony in the world. Having the most Jewish man in America
give this speech was a signal that the slaves are about to revolt.

In the end, this Gaza affair may be the bridge too far. Americans are
sickened by the footage and offended by the defense of it. Now the
elites are fearing that this affair could undermine their position. Once
the politicians see that there is no penalty for opposing this stuff,
then the whole arrangement will begin to unravel. Israel’s control over
Washington and the public debate over this relationship may have reached
a tipping point and may no longer be tolerable.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="XYNGaZ1ctHMfhGyC+xdgug==cb7s1r44lV4eMFN4EdEMmemV2pd5IKJDkuiiPyHmMt9cpFsodOhkdESWMfI6nuGk1O8"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="EK+YaJCSFg1OStbO2BDVLQ==cb717bTeOeoAOs+yJa9UMgRW0pnClRriuhmn67Hh0psoTvVKDbNe3RtdSK4CMxhxvqw"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
