---
title: "An Old Story"
date: "2024-08-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-08-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32502"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32502"
---

For a little over a year, it has been clear to people who have followed
the war in Ukraine that there is no winning scenario for Ukraine. The
sanctions on Russia failed to change the Russian approach to the war.
The hundreds of billions in NATO weapons, planning and support were not
enough to beat back the Russian army. The great Ukraine offensive of
2023 was a stunning failure that eliminated any possibility of the
Ukraine army holding the line in the Donbass.

The question has been how does the war end. For Ukraine, the best
outcome is a negotiated settlement that includes a change in Ukrainian
attitudes. Maybe NATO abandons the project and the Russians install new
leaders. Maybe Zelensky figures out that he is about to be cut loose and
cuts a deal with the Russians. Maybe Washington, hoping to save face,
backs Zelensky in making a deal with the Russians. No matter how, the
best option for Ukraine was a negotiated settlement.

That appears to be off the table now that the Ukrainians have launched
this crazy incursion into the Kursk region of Russia. It appears that
the plan was to reach the nuclear power plant in Kursk and then use it
as blackmail. The Ukrainians would not just demand negotiations but
require a Russian withdrawal as a condition for negotiations or they
would blow up the nuclear power plant. As ridiculous as that sounds, the
other explanations for this gambit are even nuttier.

Of course, this plan sounds like it is from a poorly made Hollywood
action thriller, rather than a sober-minded military operation. The
reason for that is the people running Ukraine are actors. For going on
three years now they have spent far more time crafting creative
narratives about the war than thinking soberly about how they can avoid
being wiped off the map. For people who imagine reality is just a clever
written story, this operation sounded brilliant.

The supreme role of narrative for Western political elites is evident in
how they have reacted to this new production. It seems they had no part
in its construction, or at least they were not told about it in advance,
so they were unprepared to play their role in selling this as the next
great event in the drama. Western media was not provided with a script,
so they had no idea what to say. Eventually they <a
href="https://thehill.com/policy/defense/4826388-ukraine-offensive-russia-kursk/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">settled</a> on this being bad for Putin’s
narrative, a thing that does not exist.

It is another example of the total lack of realism in our political
class. The Ukraine war is an unnecessary venture for everyone involved
except the Russians. A thousand years of history says they will not
allow Ukraine to fall into the Western orbit. Otherwise, everyone else
involved has practical reasons for not having this war, but the good
feelings that come from good narratives have been too much to resist.
The result is an unfolding catastrophe for the West.

This total lack of realism in the West seems to have finally reached an
end point with the Russians after this latest caper. In a recent press
conference, Putin said that it is now impossible to deal with Ukrainian
leadership. While not closing the door to negotiations completely, he
has now ruled out dealing with Zelensky. Other Russian officials are
floating the idea of regime change in Kiev as a necessary precondition
for any negotiated settlement to the war.

What that means is that the eventual collapse of the Ukrainian army,
which is now accelerating due to the nutty decisions made by Kiev, will
be followed by a political collapse, by force if necessary. In other
words, if the West deciders it is time to make a deal with the Russians,
that deal starts by cutting Zelensky loose, which in the context of
Ukrainian politics means the whole crew must go. They will not go
voluntarily, so it means the end game includes a civil war in Western
Ukraine.

The Ukraine war is a microcosm of what is happening in the West. Every
decision is based only in the moment without any thought of what comes
next. Things are done voluntarily that should have been avoided, not
because they are part of a larger strategy but because they fit the
current narrative. It is as if once the story is created, the writers
are sucked into it, losing all control of the plot. All they can do is
respond as if they are now unwitting characters in the story.

This is harmless in the low-stakes world of parlor games in which
members of the political class evolve, but in the practical world, it is
a disaster. It leads to a scenario in which no one knows if the <a
href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/08/13/biden-rare-appearance-moonshot-election/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">current president</a> is alive or dead.
No one seems to care because his character has been written out of the
story. Who is actually making decisions is a mystery. It is the dynamic
that created the condition for war in Ukraine and is now pushing it
towards catastrophe.

On the one hand, it certainly seems like the West is now governed by
emotion and symbolism, rather than practical considerations. The Kamala
Harris campaign can be boiled down to a promise of feel goods. The
entire production is a collection of symbolic shapes and sounds to
transmit the simple idea that it feels good or that the alternative will
make you feel bad. To his credit, Trump is offering tangible things that
have some connection to practical reality.

The lesson of the Ukraine war, however, is that reality still matters.
All the feel-good stories and symbols has not changed the fact that the
Russian army is chewing up the Ukrainian army. The clever narratives
cannot conceal the massive <a
href="https://www.economist.com/1843/2023/06/04/a-vast-ukrainian-cemetery-awaits-the-casualties-of-the-counter-offensive"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">cemeteries</a> full of dead Ukrainian
soldiers. The question that arises from this war is whether Western
elites will learn that the clever stories by the managerial class will
not keep them from the gallows if things start to crumble.

The great lesson of history is that there is always a price to be paid
for failed leadership and that price is paid by the people, then their
rulers. Joseph de Maistre famously said that the people get the
government they deserve. He was wrong. The lesson of the French
Revolution is that the ruling elite gets the people they deserve. A
ruling class that is concerned more with clever narratives than
practical reality will face a people, who out of practical necessity,
decide they must get a new ruling elite.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="lW05CICn2djebF+tr3/HSw==cb7IUSSo/+PT1GZJaXgUjFg1dkRetI+jVs5Sca+zRqrXtVi4CaxU3DHCecfIZziED7+"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="BIpPDMangxtFp+QpPpckxw==cb77fHBSP8Kobclg9eeHSplgdA77rz4MI6+TxlD+e0xkSi8Le+3MkjdiZvdUglJXDXm"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
