---
title: "Death Of The Middle Man"
date: "2024-03-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-03-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31698"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31698"
---

Imagine you are a rich guy, maybe a banker working at an investment
house, and your neighborhood starts to have a crime problem. Maybe you
get mugged on the way to your car or perhaps you start hearing about
break-ins in the area. All of a sudden, your safe world is no longer
safe. You think that maybe it is time to hire some private security to
enforce the rules, but you find that they do not exist. All of a sudden,
your cash is not all that important to maintaining your lifestyle.

That is the position of Western political elites as they come to terms
with the reality playing out on the Ukraine battlefront. The West has
lots of cash. They can literally create what they need from thin air.
Sure, it has created inflation for the Dirt People, but only a sucker
cares about them. Ukraine is what matters. Even though Congress is slow
walking the next pile of cash, there is still plenty to send Ukraine.
The EU and now the U.S. are plotting to “loan” Ukraine the money.

The trouble is dollars and euros are not much use on the battlefield.
What Ukraine needs is machines, ammunition for the machines and men to
run the machines, but that is something the West is struggling to
produce. CNN has a <a
href="https://www.cnn.com/2024/03/10/politics/russia-artillery-shell-production-us-europe-ukraine/index.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">story</a> up that reports the Russians
now produce three times the number of artillery shells as America and
Europe combined, which is probably an understatement. The production
numbers cited are more theoretical than actual for the West.

The industrial aspect of this war has been a topic of discussion around
here since the war started, but like the rich guys living in their
fantasy world of wealth and access, the political class of the West has
not thought about it. Making stuff, inventing stuff and fixing stuff is
for the Dirt People. Cloud People need their time and energy to think
about new ways to describe the glorious future or turn bits of invented
money into more bits of invented money so they can underwrite their
lifestyle.

What the war in Ukraine is doing is reminding the world that the
strength of a country is not magical numbers in reports that no one
reads, but the hard cold reality of making stuff, fixing stuff, and
inventing new ways to make and fix stuff. You can probably throw in food
production, which is a form of making stuff, but a unique form, along
with digging stuff out of the ground, like energy products and minerals.
Countries good at these things will be strong countries.

The West no longer does these things. America and Europe still grow lots
of food but the war on food production, as part of the Gaia cult, is
threatening to kill off whole swaths of farm production. The war on
digging up the ground is mostly about aesthetics, as the Cloud People
hate seeing people do dirty work like farming or digging minerals out of
the ground. Manufacturing employment in the U.S. has dropped by half
over the last half century, despite the population growing by a third.

This is why the West is losing this proxy war with Russia. Despite
having a far smaller population and smaller GDP, Russia still makes
things and has the facilities and work force to make more things. If you
can grow your own food in vast excess, supply your own energy needs,
plus much more for export and you make things that people around the
world want to buy, you are going to be immune from the machinations of
the money changers in New York and London.

It goes beyond this though. China is the world’s biggest manufacturer
and the world’s biggest consumer market. India is the second largest
consumer market, and it is emerging as a manufacturing powerhouse.
Russia is now the <a
href="https://www.intellinews.com/russia-overtakes-germany-to-become-fifth-biggest-economy-in-the-world-in-gdp-on-a-ppp-basis-286944/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">fifth largest economy</a> in the world,
despite the sanctions. What is happening here is the places where things
are made and dug out of the ground are getting rich, which means they
can also buy things, like the stuff they make for Western markets.

What we are seeing here is the death of the middle-man economy. For the
last half century, America has positioned itself to be the money lender,
the regulator, and the facilitator of economic activity, rather than the
producer. To finance this, much of the manufacturing base was auctioned
off and the economy became reliant on the production of credit to the
global economy. To a lesser degree, the EU has done the same thing, as
the junior partner of the United States.

What the war on Russia is revealing is that in a street fight, the
banker has no chance against the guy who works on a factory floor. Sure,
the banker has a Brazilian Jujitsu trainer and access to the finest
steroids, but the working man knows how to fight and win, so it can
never be much of a match. Further, in the contest of countries, it is
the rules of the street that matter, not the rules of the boardroom. The
competition of nations is always a street fight.

Long ago, the paleos made the point that you cannot have an economy
based on everyone doing each other’s laundry. The great transition from
an industrial economy to  a service economy was cheered by the Cloud
People but people like Pat Buchanan and Ross Perot warned that it was
unsustainable. A generation on and the world is learning that those old
guys were right. A country that does not make things, fix things, and
invent things is no longer a serious country.

Twenty years ago, Yuri Slezkine observed in his <a
href="https://www.amazon.com/Jewish-Century-Yuri-Slezkine/dp/0691127603"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">book</a>, *The Jewish Century*, that the
American economy had been transformed into one that primarily served the
interests of the facilitators and middle-men. Jews, he argued, were
unusually skilled at these tasks and that is why they have been so
successful. According to the <a
href="https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2024/04/us-anti-semitism-jewish-american-safety/677469/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Atlantic</a>, the golden age of American
Jews is ending, and probably taking America with it. It turns out that
the middle-man economy is not sustainable.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="e+OfASYH1OMwq4rARIU2Dg==cb7s6tE2EhbX2iv1TctATvUwqPhGis9E74QZT9MEXHbHzL28b9UbkBN0W2+5u74Owbd"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="RH5qHzN52Xwv2ES7BOLf0A==cb7JKbnDqCRTFWq9Ccgu4th3jB61kIJGLolmC8sQ23IcGX1I2Nw0XBazW4e42NtLcyP"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
