---
title: "America First"
date: "2024-07-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-07-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32340"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32340"
---

Most of the people who use the phrase “America First” do so emotively,
as a way to indicate that they like or dislike something. They will use
this phrase, for example, when dismissing something or someone from the
left. Alternatively, they will use it as a way to restate allegiance to
their cause. “I’m America First” reduces to “I’m on the side of the good
guys and those people are the bad guys.” Beyond this basic political
signaling the phrase has little meaning for the users.

This is not true of everyone. Trump and his more reliable supporters use
the phrase to mean a radical reorientation of the political class. What
Trump means when he says he wants an “American First” foreign policy,
for example, is that he looks at foreign policy in service to his
domestic policy. The same is true with trade. He promotes the use of
tariffs, for example, because he thinks about trade as a means to an end
and that end is the promotion of the American domestic economy.

The radicalism of this gets lost because both sides of the political
class have mischaracterized these positions for half a century.
So-called conservatives talk about “free trade”, a thing that does not
exist, as enlightened policy, while tariffs are slandered as
isolationism and central planning. The left now promotes endless wars
around the globe as a necessary duty of the American government, even if
it comes with a heavy cost to the American people.

One reason that government policy now feels anti-white is because it
generally feels anti-American, but in reality, it is simply indifferent
to white Americans. The thing that has consumed the Biden presidency has
been Ukraine, followed by the endless wars in the Levant, and then their
escalations with China. Whenever the concerns of white people come up,
they are blasted with the tired old slogans that are simply meant to
dismiss the concerns of the majority population.

Immigration is another example. The logic behind open borders is not
that it is good for the native population, but that the people enabling
it are doing a good deed for these foreigners and humanity in general.
While much of it is driven by spite and ingratitude, the underlying
cause is indifference to domestic concerns. For the typical person in
the political system, the concerns of average Americans matter only in
so far that they have an impact on these cosmopolitan projects.

This is why the usual suspects screech in horror at Trump. He is a
threat not just to their specific schemes but to the framework in which
they operate. For example, he looks at Ukraine and asks why Americans
are paying for it. If the Europeans want to make war with each other,
according to Trump, they should pay for it. In other words, he looks at
the Ukraine situation purely in terms of domestic economics. The
starting question for Trump is “how is this good for Americans?”

This is most obvious in his statements regarding Taiwan. In a recent
interview Trump pointed out that Taiwan is rich mostly because of
America, so they should pay for their own defense against China. He also
criticized prior administrations for allowing Taiwan to corner the
market on high end computer chips. Trump feels no moral or emotional
commitment to Taiwan. For him, it is just another transactional
relationship that is either good or bad for Americans.

Even with regards to Israel, the area where Trump gets most criticized
by dissidents, his view is purely transactional. He looks at Israel as
part of the greater Jewish lobby in America, so he treats it as such.
The Jews have a lot of money and power, so Trump caters to them in the
same way he caters to other powerful interests. If Evangelicals stop
worshipping Jewish people, Trump will be less enthusiastic for Israel,
because Israel stops being important domestically.

J.D. Vance also takes this transactional view of trade and foreign
policy, which is why the usual suspects detest him. When asked about
Ukraine during his senate run, he shrugged and asked why anyone cares
about Ukraine. Vance has also talked about using tariffs as a way to
bring manufacturing back, as well as a way to boost the American economy
in general. This kind of talk around the usual suspects is like wearing
garlic around a vampire.

The reason this terrifies official Washington is that all of their
projects and therebefore their reason to exist rest on the assertion
that overseas concerns are paramount because they serve the interest of
the empire. If politics moves to a debate about what is and what is not
good for the American people, suddenly these schemes not only stop
making sense, but they also sound un-American. Project Ukraine, for
example, is exactly what Washington warned about in his farewell
address.

That is the root of the rage we see in the political class. Trump and
now Vance signal a shift back to an older form of politics where
candidates promised a chicken in every pot and two cars in every garage.
This is antithetical to the cosmopolitical politics that have dominated
for at least the last thirty years. A successful politician of old
actually had to know something about chickens, pots and cars. Contrast
that to now when politicians take pride in having no practical
knowledge.

None of this should lead to a celebration. The odds of Trump winning are
not good, despite all of the good things breaking his way. The mere fact
that he is in a close race with a nursing home patient shows how much
damage has been done to the self-respect and intelligence of the voting
public. Even if Trump wins, the political machine will simply work
harder to undermine his efforts. The usual suspects are terribly smart
but hey never take no for an answer.

Even so, this all points to the problem with empire. All empires are
eventually controlled by an alien elite that parasites off the people
who made the empire. As the cost of empire exceeds the benefit of the
empire, the people at the top begin to hollow out that which makes them
possible. In this regard, the Trump – Vance ticket is a symptom and a
warning of what lies ahead. Either the reformist elements of the
oligarchy embrace America First, or something much worse than Trump
comes next.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="oF03xs6yjhHyiqb4IFT1WQ==cb7C+NMpVBqsjU4WSZz4A/caZ5ntq5W1d0Kiq6ji8+rXyGEg4H+mOy3IBkfOL+LRMQ5"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="MWBqYIPeW+AYhUMx4J8YEQ==cb7A25pHsLTk2oKmjAAv+M5pke4PGoUqlg2Dl4OogteaXG1YbMfIw5aVkpRI8vzkupH"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
