---
title: "Big Top Politics"
date: "2024-12-19T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-12-19T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33243"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33243"
---

The internet is having a good laugh at the release of police bodycam
[video](https://x.com/frogNscorpion/status/1869545479073370591) from an
incident that occurred at the home of Nick Fuentes last month. The
police were called when Fuentes allegedly pepper sprayed an old Jewish
woman and then threw her down the steps of his house. In the bodycam
video, the police officer inexplicably asks Fuentes if he is a white
supremacist and he responds by telling the cop that he is a Mexican, so
he cannot be a white supremacist.

Fuentes is a media savvy character, so it is entirely possible that he
said this old joke knowing the video would end up on the internet. Back
in his early days as an online influencer, he would often claim to be a
Mexican or a multiracial person as a joke but also so he could avoid
being called a white nationalist. Like all cult leaders, Fuentes takes
every opportunity to signal to his people by using insider language, so
it is likely that he said this to the cops for that reason.

According to news reports, Fuentes has been charged with assault and
will start the legal process this week with his first court appearance.
This is the reason the local prosecutor released the bodycam video. One
of the ironies of the bodycam phenomenon is that it was to prevent cops
from framing innocent black bodies, but it is now mostly used by
prosecutors to sway public opinion. They routinely dump the video to
make the accused look bad.

That aside, this event does touch on some more serious issues related to
politics in the mass media, technological age. Thirty years ago, Nick
Fuentes could not exist, and we know this because David Duke had ceased
to exist. Duke was Nick Fuentes for the analog age and had a media run
in the late-1980’s. That was before the internet when the media had
tight control over who was and was not on the main stage and the many
smaller stages that relied on the main stage.

Duke got the attention of the media in 1988 when he ran in a special
election in Louisiana for a vacant state house seat. Reagan was about to
leave the scene, and the usual suspects were looking for a new electoral
strategy. They hoped they could make Duke the face of conservatism, so
this local character was turned into a national figure when he managed
to win the special election. For a few years he would get called to do
national media until the media got tired of him.

Fast forward to this age and Nick Fuentes is doing a similar act, but
instead of getting the attention of national media, he has used a
mastery of new technology to insert himself in the new media that is the
result of the new technology. First it was as a live streamer within the
alt-right ecosystem and then as a street activist and number one fan of
Donald Trump. Once he got a following, he leveraged this to get noticed
by other online characters with large audiences.

There is where the parallel ends. Once the media got tired of David
Duke, his fifteen minutes were up no matter how hard he tried. In this
age, internet personalities can force their way into public
consciousness, even when the major media operations choose to ignore
them. That usually requires being outrageous in such a way that they
trend for a day on social media. Of course, that means all these
characters are in a race to see who can be the most outrageous.

That is why Fuentes is now going to court. His antics attracted local
loons to his home and his response, probably designed to get maximum
attention online, has him facing assault charges. This is not unique to
Fuentes. Non-political influencers rely on the same strategy to increase
their clout. Andrew Tate exists because he packaged old man-o-sphere
ideas in an outlandish package. The modern influencer is famous mostly
because they are good at getting attention.

Therein lies the problem. Andrew Tate is a great example of how the
attention seeking crowds out everything else about him. Few people who
recognize his name know anything about his act. Whatever issues he is
trying to promote are lost in the carnival atmosphere that must exist
around him in order for him to retain clout. You see the same thing with
Nick Fuentes. The engine of the online influencer must constantly be fed
with new ways to get attention.

This is why mainstream politics have become ridiculous. To get into
politics, you must show an ability to get attention. Then you must be
willing to play the role required to hold office. This selects for
people who either lack authenticity and dignity or are willing to trade
those things to win office. The result is a politics dominated by
two-dimensional profiles controlled by the producers who underwrite
their role in the great drama that is American politics.

Another thing about this Fuentes business is it presents people with a
political dilemma because the reason a Fuentes exists is because he
elicits strong feelings for or against the character he plays online. If
an actor gets attacked at his home for playing a villain in a film, it
is an easy call. People know he is an actor. The trick of the online
influencer is to strongly link the character them play online with their
real self. It is not as easy to separate the fictional Fuentes from the
real Fuentes.

Putting aside the fictional Fuentes, it is easy for people to side with
the guy who must put up with kooks banging on his door. Gassing an old
Jewish woman may not be the best response, but it is understandable. In
a sane world, the cops would tell the old woman to stop harassing
Fuentes. They would warn Fuentes about gassing old Jewish women who
knock on his door. Both would have been forced to apologize to one
another and the matter would be put to bed.

Of course, in a sane world, Fuentes would not exist and the crazy people
who need him to exist would not exist. Perhaps, as a step toward a
return to normalcy, the judge will make the old woman stand on the
street corner wearing a sandwich board that reads, “I like to harass
Mexicans.” Fuentes could be made to stand on the opposite corner with a
sandwich board that reads, “I beat up old women.” Just imagine how many
impressions that would get on Twitter!

It is tempting to look at this seedy affair as proof things are
terminal. Politics is now overrun by carnies, so nothing serious can be
done. Yet, things are happening in Washington primarily because the
world’s biggest shit poster happens to be the world’s richest man and
pals with another shit poster, Donald Trump. They attacked the spending
bill in Congress and then support for it collapses. Perhaps even in the
circus of American politics good things can happen with the right
ringmaster.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Gt3DvFxw8AJb1kLdze1NRQ==cb7QJ9+25wH+LQ73v31MBZ1xB5UQI4A/BQoP3IU2rcOR2YQwxZS36ckXsdivCpKAHeS"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="8swGKXXqEIKqMsJ7IqwrvA==cb7q8x8bbEQ16pQ3yLKHqlYvuyt7s6Mhs4k2v0Lw2ZqUQ7MhaxBYCb2yNmpeiylvz4s"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
