---
title: "The Drone Revolution"
date: "2024-09-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32697"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32697"
---

The war in the Ukraine grinds on, despite claims that the Ukraine army
is collapsing at various areas of the front. The fact is large
industrial age armies do not break and run like armies of the past. This
was true in both world wars when the German army was able to fight
effectively in certain areas right up to the end. We are seeing the same
with the Ukraine army, which maintains some offensive capacity, despite
losing ground in many areas due to a lack of men and material.

There is a new element in the mix that changes how a large industrial
army, like the Ukraine military, succumbs to a superior opponent. The
drone has become a ubiquitous element of the battlefield, and it has not
only changed how armies fight, but also how they retreat and get
destroyed. We are seeing this in the Donetsk region, where the
Ukrainians are struggling to find units to man fortified positions, but
the Russians are struggling to overrun these positions.

It has been said that a good sniper team can defeat a battalion, which
is an exaggeration, but there is some truth to it. Snipers have been a
highly effective way to slow down an opposing force. This is especially
true for an army facing a much larger opponent, as was the case for the
Finns in the Winter War. Finnish snipers harassed the Red Army to the
point where they could not advance, despite having an enormous advantage
in men and material.

The drone is something like the high-tech sniper. A competent drone team
can harass an opponent from a distance, forcing the opponent to find
cover. Unlike the sniper, the drone operator can target equipment. An
armored unit advancing toward an enemy position can be knocked out by a
drone unit, without taking fire. They attack the column to stall it,
pass on the geolocation to their artillery units, then move to a new
spot in order to repeat the process until the column is destroyed.

In the past, an attacking army would soften up the fortified position
with artillery and air power and then use overwhelming numbers to
overrun the enemy position. Defenders would likely fall back before the
assault, understanding the math. Today, the defenders can attack the
enemy as he is forming up for the attack and at every step he makes
toward the defender. This radically increases the cost to the attacker,
in men and material, without increasing the cost to the defender.

This is why the NATO counterattack on the Russians in 2023 failed. NATO
doctrine is pre-drone, so it assumes the attacker can organize superior
numbers to attack a narrow part of the defensive line, thus creating a
gap. Reserves are then poured into the gap to break the line and force
the defender into a chaotic retreat. This was the plan General Milley
devised for Ukraine in 2023. Ukraine would pierce the Russian defenses
with a big arrow offensive and the Russians would flee.

What happened is the Ukrainian attackers never got to the line, as
drones attacked the advancing columns. The vehicles at the front of the
column were hit with drones, which stalled the column. Then precision
artillery strikes using geolocations from the drones attacked the rest
of the column. The Ukrainians were forced off the roads into the mine
fields where they were finally destroyed. The drone allowed the Russians
to create a kill box before the Ukrainians could see the front.

The Russians learned from this, which is why their 2024 offensive has
been moving at a snail’s place along many points on the front. They use
their drones to find weak points on the front, send in small units to
develop their attack close to the Ukraine positions, thus avoiding large
accumulations of men and machines. This forces Ukraine to move in
reserves, which the Russians attack as they are on the move. Then the
Russians repeat this in some new area of the front.

This is why the Russian advance has been a creeping affair, rather than
the big arrow offensives Western analysts still think is the norm. Even
when the Russians open a sizable gap, they avoid pouring in large
numbers of troops until they can clear the area and create their own
fortifications to protect their men and machines from Ukrainian drone
operators. The drone has not only changed the battlefield, but it has
also changed the rear areas that support the frontline troops.

The main advantage of the drone is it is cheap, even cheaper than the
legendary sniper team that could stall a battalion. Snipers are
expensive. It takes a lot of skill and practice to become an effective
sniper team. Drone operators, on the other hand, can be created from raw
recruits in a short period of time. Most young people have grown up with
the technology, so they quickly pick up the skills to effectively
operate drones on the modern battlefield.

Of course, the drones themselves are cheap, relative to the other sorts
of weapons we see on the modern battlefield. A modern anti-tank system
like the Javelin costs about a quarter million dollars. This is the
launcher and missiles. New missiles are about one hundred thousand per
copy. Compared to a tank, which costs tens of millions, this is a
cost-effective weapon, but compared to a drone, that costs ten thousand
dollars, it is a wildly expensive white elephant.

The low cost of drones is what has kept the Ukrainians in the war. They
can manufacture tens of thousands of these a month using readily
available supplies they buy using some of the money they get from the
West. They have been able to prevent a large-scale rapid collapse
anywhere on the front by slowing down the formation of Russian troops
and slowing down Russian advances after they create a gap in the lines
or take over some key positions.

The next shoe to drop in the drone revolution is the use of drones in
guerilla war and urban combat scenarios. We are getting a glimpse of
this in Ukraine. The Russians are using fly-by-wire drones to attack
Ukrainians inside buildings. They do this to avoid electronic warfare
systems. Surveillance drones looking down on an urban accommodation will
detect movement in a building and then drone units will get close enough
to fly a drone through the window.

The next step in the evolution of urban combat drones is to cut the wire
and program the drone to navigate its way to the target without the use
of GPS. The Russians are starting to adapt cruise missile technology,
which relies on terrain matching to navigate the missile to the target,
to their drones. It will not be long before drones are able to operate
without radio communications. Thus, the jamming technology currently
used to defeat drones will become ineffective.

Military tech has a habit of finding its way to the streets, which is
why police departments all over the West have tanks, armored personnel
carriers, and elite tactical units to arrest hate-speakers. This means
Western cities will be thick with drones monitoring the behavior of the
citizens. It also means gangsters and rival political factions will be
using FPV drones on one another. The next shot at Trump could very well
be a drone attack and then the drone revolution comes home.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="HBVznMfzznza1LtmvKzaWw==cb7YAOOU7F0nG7xLDcATZV09AUpUmj2876jTlMztj4Mb9E65phKrGHNcPamU1qqH3i4"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="oaGVW1gQxfUaBd62QjWgaQ==cb7M1si/KTNG1sAgK+ON7EeHPMbwliqMgQymFGOZmYgIk507qCHulEcv6/yYde3kk5Y"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
