---
title: "The Dangerous Game"
date: "2024-06-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-06-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32224"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32224"
---

During the Cold War, planners concluded that nuclear war would most
likely result from two closely related factors. One was the breakdown of
communications between Washington and Moscow at all levels. It was not
just the red phone between the Kremlin and the White House, but
communications across both systems. The other factor that would lead to
war was uncertainty about the other side’s intentions. This fear could
result in runaway escalation ending in nuclear disaster.

The remedy for this was to maintain communications at all levels of
government with the other side so that both sides knew the nuclear
posture of the other. The American military had a range of contacts with
the Russian military. The spy agencies had contacts with one another
across a range of issues and regions. Members of Western media and the
academy developed contacts with their analogs on an unofficial basis on
behalf of the intel agencies.

The main reason the Cold War did not end in nuclear annihilation is that
the two great managerial systems institutionalized communications in
such a way that it became a specialty with career opportunities. In
Russia, being an expert in some aspect of America meant a good life as a
member of the new class. In America, having some expertise on Russia
meant a comfortable life in the clouds. The Cold War standoff became a
jobs program for both sides.

The selection pressure on both sides was for second and third order
thinking, as both sides had an investment in the status quo. Foreign
policy advisors in America thought about the downstream consequences of
their recommendations because it could have a direct impact on their
employment prospects. Similarly, on the Russian side, the pressure was
always there to think about how the Americans would react as getting
that wrong could mean being posted to the Urals.

This is what makes the present so dangerous. Washington’s proxy war with
Russia lacks both the incentives to prevent escalation and the sorts of
people who see it as their purpose to prevent escalation. Washington has
cut off communications with Moscow and works to prevent others from
developing their own channels. Europe has little contact now with
Russia. The primary goal of Washington is to isolate Moscow, which means
isolating the West from the world.

We see how this works in the recent beach attack in Crimea. Washington
provides Ukraine with long range guided missiles. Ukraine lacks the
ability to use them, so the American military provides the targeting and
guidance of them, while the Ukrainians operate the ground-based
launchers. Over the weekend, one of the missiles, which was armed with
cluster munitions, hit a busy beach, killing half a dozen civilians and
wounding hundreds of others.

This was most likely an accident. Either the targeting was wrong, as
there is a military base nearby, or the missile malfunctioned. It is
possible the air defense system knocked the missile off course instead
of destroying it. It is also possible that the Ukrainians, in league
with their neocon handlers, did something to target the missiles at
civilian infrastructure, which has happened in the past. There is the
rumor that the real target was the big Orthodox cathedral nearby.

The point is no one knows and more importantly, no one in Moscow knows
what the intent was behind this attack. The Russians have stated that
they think it was deliberate and they blame Washington. Moscow summoned
the American ambassador, presumably to deliver a warning about future
reprisals. Putin made clear that Moscow will retaliate, and it may not
be against Ukraine. Everyone is left to guess as to what they mean but
the empire has targets all over the world.

What has developed is a game of chicken in which the Biden
administration keeps escalating, daring the Russians to respond, while
the Russians try to figure out what Washington is actually trying to
achieve. There is no benefit to the Russians in escalation, so they seek
to avoid it. Logically, there is no benefit to the West in escalation,
but they keep escalating, so Russia is left to guess as to what is the
real motivation behind these escalations.

Where this leaves us is a place that is the reverse of the Cold War.
There is no communication between the two sides and neither side knows
what the other side is thinking or planning. On the surface, the Russian
position is clear, but Western propaganda has anathematized accepting it
at face value. The coordinated attacks on Nigel Farage from the entire
political class is a good example. Merely pointing out the obvious gets
you called a traitor.

It is easy to see how this can end horrifically. If the Russians, for
example, declare a no-fly zone over the Black Sea, it is likely that
Washington will keep sending drones toward Crimea and the Russians will
have to knock them down. Washington will then send manned aircraft or
maybe a British ship to threaten the Russian fleet. Such a situation
could easily spiral out of control because one side thinks it can do
anything it likes, and the other side knows it has to draw the line
somewhere.

That gets to the heart of the matter. Over the last thirty years in the
absence of that old Cold War system, the neocons have taken control of
the foreign policy establishment to the point where there is no dissent
in Washington. The system is now controlled by fanatics who lack second
order thinking. Like all fanatics, the neocons see only that which
satisfies their fanaticism. As a result, they imagine every move is
furtherance of their goal of destroying their ancient enemy.

There is also the fact that America is a fading empire that still
assumes Francis Fukuyama was right and this is the end of history.
Thirty years of selecting for people good at enjoying the fruits of
victory has left the managerial class in the West stocked with
obsequious, narrow-minded dullards. A Jake Sullivan is in his position
because he never asks questions and never has an original thought. These
people are easily manipulated by the psychopaths of the Kagan cult.

The ultimate question that is being answered at the moment is whether
the Global American Empire will go out with a bang or a whimper. In the
fullness of time that will be the real history of this age. The emerging
great powers of the world are trying to manage the decline of the West
and the transition to a multipolar world, while the people running the
West play a game of chicken. The reckless management of the Ukraine war
suggests it will not end well.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="TSAtnfkz0Ko8gSgzIIGZSg==cb7Unq6BzPMWxT9CFJUQDeuJKaKQB7W7QjxG5BzrNF+mmmZbVgqR4eic2ICQ22msEVv"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="Tm0tSOgHqsdlf8aSEO+Gdg==cb7iFQXKURXgNb2nEMcozxEUItrvUF+VHjjvH+Fi6S74ZfmkAT69bLIBm3Fkua7fylX"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
