---
title: "Chipping Away At The Old Order"
date: "2024-01-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31395"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31395"
---

Modern dissidents argue that the chain of causality starts with biology,
which bounds the culture of a people. That culture grows the
institutions which define the politics and economics of society. Replace
half the population of Haiti with Japanese people and you end up with a
vastly different society. The Japanese would seize control of the
country, impose their will and the result would be a political-economy
that is nothing like anything that could exist in an African run
society.

While this is a good rule of thumb for general politics, it falls apart
when there is a revolution in technology. The Industrial Revolution
started in England and spread to the European continent. It quickly
resulted in massive cultural changes as people moved from the
countryside to the cities to work in factories. It is a great example of
how revolutionary technological changes can reverse the flow of the
great chain of causality as the new technology is absorbed by the
society.

Of course, the Industrial Revolution did not start in England by luck.
The slow transformation of the people, resulting in lots of smart people
looking to solve old problems, is the counter to this claim. The
Industrial Revolution was the result of the changes in the European
population that started in the Middle Ages. It was biology that brought
about the technological revolution, so one can argue that the great
chain of causality holds up even in revolutionary moments.

Putting that aside, the West is at the end of one of those revolutions,
which is the microprocessor revolution. The way we live today is very
different from how we lived fifty years ago, at least when it comes to
how we interact with one another and how individuals interact with
society. Fifty years ago, this post would not be written because there
would be no way to see it even if it was written. Fifty years ago,
information was relatively scarce, while today it is unlimited.

This is what makes the present plagiarism panic in the academy something
more than just a tempest in a teapot. Fifty years ago, it was hard to
copy and paste the work of others because copy and paste did not exist.
Written words were typed with a typewriter, which meant typing out what
it was you were stealing. Before publishing, many hands edited and
retyped those words. The whole process moved much slower, so getting
caught was also much easier.

That changed with technology, but the editing and fact checking process
did not change with the new technology. Instead, it atrophied. The new
technology turned the flow of written material into a firehose and those
old processes were not able to keep up with the volume. Not only that,
the bottlenecks were blown open like a raging river blasting through a
damn. Today written content flows without restriction and without any
serious scrutiny in the modern academy.

There is another issue here. Technology has created a new conception of
the public domain that was unimaginable fifty years ago. Wikipedia, for
example, is technically not a publisher and it has no authors. It is a
crowdsourced repository of information that is explicitly intended to be
in the public domain. The internet itself is the repository of all human
knowledge now. Again, most of it is intended to be freely available to
whoever is interested, because it is the public domain.

Can you plagiarize the internet? How about Wikipedia? The concept of
plagiarism is tied to property rights. You produce a written work using
your labor so you have an ownership claim to it. If on the other hand,
you give it away freely on the internet or post it on a site like
Wikipedia, do you still own it? Can it be stolen when your clear intent
is to share it with the world, perhaps anonymously? Throw in the fact
that these sources change over time and the issue gets quite murky.

Then you have the fact that there are only so many ways to state things,
especially those that are part of a contextual reality. Claudine Gay got
in trouble for repeating what amounts to echolalic babbling that defines
her field of study. There are only so many ways to preach against
whiteness, so by now every way to state the simplistic ideas within that
field have been done many times. No matter how you say something in
grievance studies, you sound like everyone else.

That is what will be revealed by these efforts to scan the works of
academics for plagiarism using modern tools. The rigid conformity in
most of these fields has led to a narrowing of what is safe to write in
a paper. If everyone was fastidious about siting the work of others, all
new papers would be so littered with citations that the index would be
longer than the paper. The plagiarism hunters will find they are
overwhelmed with examples to the point where it becomes meaningless.

This brings up another issue. The culture of the internet from the very
beginning was to be open and communal. Long before the scolds were
allowed online, the culture of the internet was anarchic. If you posted
something online it was fair game. Anyone could use it and modify it to
their purposes. Post a pic of yourself on vacation and it could end up
being used by someone posting about that vacation spot. No one thought
or thinks about who owns a pic, a meme or anything that is online.

In other words, the culture of the internet has changed the culture in
general as people spend so much time online. Someone using a picture of
your house, for example, only matters if their intent is to cause you
harm or they unintentionally create a problem for you, like having a mob
show up at your door. No one contacts the real estate sites demanding
that old images of their house be taken down. Can you even do this, even
if you had the desire? Would a court side with you?

Bill Ackman’s wife allegedly copied from Wikipedia. How can we know this
when it is possible the Wiki contributor copied from Mx. Ackman? Maybe
she cribbed from some third source that the Wiki author also used. Is
this even copying when the whole point of the site is to collect up
information for public consumption? Again, can you steal something that
is made freely available? Plagiarism assumes intent and the lack of
consent, which is missing in this example.

On top of all this, the biggest players in the technology space rely on
ambiguous definitions of what constitutes property. They capture all
sorts of things about you and your behavior and sell it to corporations
and governments. They argue it is theirs to sell because you do not
technically own your habits and tastes. An emerging quality of the
ruling elite is an abandonment of the old concepts of ownership. You no
longer own you, at least not in the traditional sense of it.

Much is said about the ideological nature of the managerial elite, but
it may be that their fanaticism is simply a defense mechanism. As
technology continues to erode the old rules, their ideological fervor
fills the void. The free flow of information is not opening and
democratizing society, but instead leading to an authoritarian reaction
by the managerial elite to the threats technology brings to the old
rules. Like the steam engine, the microprocessor promises to overthrow
the old order.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="NXCwAlPSXagXyacxDJ4Ekw==cb7IgiM0IsCoJRfxOy2yKoKcVRRDTSHmNggxfFHKG5623ZonxvU+tCGFgoHSZrH+b2F"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="yON1c7d9g7X8eIVhIpJhjw==cb7l2922qx+34wX4npw4Dsx94FZnE6xvA8vEs09THTfagjc7ThJBmQbp23CUW8ZoeAS"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
