---
title: "Gradually, Then Suddenly"
date: "2024-02-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31583"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31583"
---

The Hemingway line about bankruptcy happening gradually then suddenly is
a great line because it applies to many things. The suddenly part is
what everyone can see and what everyone remembers. It is the gradually
part that is overlooked. It is the important part of the dynamic because
it explains why the event occurred. Landslides are not random events but
the accumulation of many small, unobserved events that eventually reach
a tipping point and we get the big event.

That is something to keep in mind as the military struggles to both meet
its recruitment numbers and maintain the human capital needed for its
operations. Fifty years ago, after the Vietnam war, the military put an
emphasis on quality over quantity in both its arms and the men using
those arms. The lesson of the Vietnam and post-Vietnam era, the
so-called Stripes period, was that the modern military needed to be
smarter, relying on intelligence rather than just brute force.

There is a lot more to the renaissance of the American military that
began fifty years ago, but the salient factor today is the emphasis on
intelligence. The reason for that is the military is suffering from a <a
href="https://ndupress.ndu.edu/JFQ/Joint-Force-Quarterly-81/Article/702026/officers-are-less-intelligent-what-does-it-mean/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">brain-drain</a>. The overall intelligence
of the military is in decline and it is most acute among the officer
class. According to that linked report from National Defense Press,
“Two-thirds of the new officers commissioned in 2014 would be in the
bottom one-third of the class of 1980.”

As one would expect in this age of censorship, certain factors are left
out of the discussion, but they hover over it like a fog. In fact, this
reality hangs over everything in American society, despite the rules
against acknowledging it. The highly complex machine that is the modern
high tech American society is in a race. Will the robots reach the point
where they can run things for us before the general intelligence of the
population declines below a sustainable threshold?

Of course, a big driver is simply declining intelligence. All the
research tells us that intelligence among European people has been in
decline for a long time. The debate is how long it has been happening
and why. The generally accepted estimate is that European people are
losing one point per generation at the minimum. That study about the
modern officer class suggests the decline is much more rapid, but that
does not adjust for demographic factors.

Talk to anyone willing to be honest about the state of the American
military and they will tell you that it would not fare well in a war
against a peer. This is a lesson of the Ukraine war that is being
ignored by the best people. Not only is this war more violent than
anything the American military has experienced in fifty years, it is
making demands on the officer class that the American military cannot
meet. The American planned offensive last summer is a case in point. It
was a disaster.

There is another factor to all of this, the thing that hangs over
everything like a fog, and that is the thing no one is supposed to
mention, which is demographics. That linked report mentions the collapse
in the value of a college diploma, but it skips over why this has
happened, which is the important bit. In response to demographic change
and demographic reality, the modern levelers are forced to destroy the
credentialing system so that it is no longer a measure of anything
useful.

The military is finding out what every employer in American already
knows and that is a college diploma is meaningless. In fact, it could be
an indicator that the person will be a nuisance in the work place,
making demands around social causes. The reason for this is the college
system is more concerned with training young people for those causes
than for preparing them to be productive citizens in the practical
economy. College is no longer a reliable type of intelligence test.

Another aspect of the demographic crisis is the <a
href="https://amgreatness.com/2024/01/22/white-americans-are-quiet-quitting-our-leading-institutions/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">white out</a>. This is the evolving
process whereby white Americans exit the system by choice. The military,
for example, is struggling to recruit white people, especially white
men. The main reason for this is the social causes launched by the
levelers inside the military to fix the reality of race within the
military and make it a new model army for society. The immediate
consequence of this is the military is getting dumber at a faster rate.

What is happening is white people are voting with their feet. Anyone who
has seen a once popular restaurant or entertainment area go bust can
understand what is happening across American society. It declines a
little here and a little there without much notice, then all of a sudden
everyone notices. In the case of a restaurant, this means the regulars
stop being regular. In the case of an entertainment district, it often
becomes a free fire zone for local youth.

To bring us back to that Hemingway line, in various areas we are about
to see the suddenly part of the process. The military is a good example.
The antiwhite pogroms launched inside the military under Biden were a
long time in the making. Gradually they got going and then suddenly they
were everywhere. The response from white people was to gradually avoid
the military and now suddenly it is a thing. This is a pattern turning
up all over American society.

The salient point here is that the cracks we see opening up in American
society are the consequence of long processes. The levelers have been
gnawing away at the support ropes for a long time. These problems that
seem to have suddenly appeared, like the military intelligence crisis or
the corruption of the court system are the result of decades of the
gradual undermining of standards. Like bankruptcy, societal collapse
happens gradually and then all of a sudden.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="Art3+zXbztAWWa4VftBMew==cb7YvmLNA589WYsB7ezxcgvk/afYP2GbKJMZUznF7/Nt89iYV4OCuv3fjvtecLh7mJ7"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="UsVmm/eTlwdxTnEVkBKGjQ==cb7IgLY3yXqCStCKPY0GZdWA7o88q6Cq2GGb2Yp6edzH2TNiHdKBuHnf3RmAI6nP61j"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
