---
title: "Following Orders"
date: "2024-02-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-02-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31554"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31554"
---

I was up before the sun today so I could head out to the new house and
avoid sitting in a traffic jam for hours. In the Baltimore – Washington
area, traffic starts around seven in certain areas and is a mess
everywhere by eight. The same people who tell us they know why Gaia is
angry with us also designed the road system that results in millions of
cars idling for hours every day, making Gaia angry. Regardless, I
avoided being one of those cars be getting outside the wire by six this
morning.

An hour into the drive, a sedan came up behind me so I moved over to the
travel lane to let him pass. I was probably doing eighty but he wanted
to go faster. The road is straight and wide so you can drive as fast as
you like for the most part. The only real hazard is the dumb people who
camp out in the hammer lane doing the posted speed limit, which is a
well-known problem in these parts. These rolling roadblocks are the
result of extensive use of lead paint in Baltimore.

A few miles down the road I see that car pulled over by a state trooper,
no doubt getting a ticket for speeding. The maps app on my phone warned
of a speed trap, but presumably that guy does not use that app. That
driver will now get a big fine and spend the next three years paying
higher insurance premiums, because the duty officer assign Barny Fife to
traffic duty today. He did this because they have quotas to meet every
month, despite their claims to the contrary.

If the driver bothered to ask the state trooper why he is pulling people
over for speeding on a quiet stretch of highway, the trooper would
probably say it is not safe to exceed the posted speed limit. He would
say this knowing it is a lie, but that is what he says because it is
what allows him to think the job has a purpose beyond raising revenue
for the government and providing him with an income. A big part of
policing is convincing the cops that they stand between civilization and
anarchy.

If the driver called bullshit on it, the trooper would fall back on the
line every cop learns after a few weeks on the job. He is just doing his
job. This is the most factually true thing any cop ever says in any
setting. That trooper is told to write tickets and he knows how many he
needs to write before he can finish his shift. If the trooper wants to
keep his job, he does what he is told and never questions it. If he is
told to randomly shoot people on the highway, he is going to do it.

This is not to pick on the police. They are just the most egregious
example of the “I’m just following orders” mentality of this age. If you
want to keep your job at Mega Corp, you better not be the first guy to
stop cheering at the pep rally. Do not let the boss hear you making
sport of his new initiatives. Much of what people do is what they feel
they have to do in order to avoid negative consequences. To some degree,
everyone is just following orders, because that is the least bad option.

This is much more novel than it seems. Not that long ago the line, “I am
just following orders” had very negative connotations. The “Nuremberg
defense” was treated as worse than the alleged crime. The argument was
that if you follow immoral orders then you are worse than someone who
thinks the orders were moral. The latter could be rehabilitated, while
the former is someone without scruples and therefore can never be
trusted to do the right thing.

We no longer hear anyone condemn the Nuremberg defense. In fact, it has
been flipped on its head now. When the cops beat up people exercising
their rights in order to defend Antifa rioters, the so-called
conservatives rush in to remind us that the real victims are the cops
who are just following orders. The people in charge, the people we call
the left, love the idea of people following orders. They really love
seeing the cops unquestioningly following orders.

It is one of life’s many ironies that in this age where everyone is
supposed to search their heart every day for fascism, we can gain some
insight into why the German people went along with the Nazi program. In
the total state, survival depends upon not questioning the system. If
you can put yourself in jeopardy by questioning the orders, then
naturally you will take care to never be suspected of questioning the
orders, which means enthusiastically following orders.

For those who get the sads when the Nazis are cast in a negative light,
the same dynamic came to dominate communist Russia. This set in before
Stalin decided he needed to purge the people who might not follow
orders. The Bolsheviks, like the fascists after them, figured out that
you cannot get to the promised land if you are endlessly explaining
yourself to the people who refuse to follow the rules, so the expedient
solution was to remove those people.

Anarcho-tyranny is a feature of managerialism, not a bug, because it is
what is necessary for managerialism to survive. The people at the top of
the system must remain at the top of the system and the only way to
ensure that is to make sure everyone is following their orders. The
stated goals of the system are a means to an end and the end is to
perpetuate the system. The reason you must follow orders may change, but
you must always follow orders.

Eventually this advances to the point where the system becomes so
conservative and brittle it is unable to adapt. We cannot know how
fascism would have ended, but we saw how communism ended. In its final
days it was old men desperately trying to hold onto power by enforcing
rules that no longer made sense. Once people stopped following orders,
the whole thing collapsed. It is something to think about the next time
you are pulled over for speeding on a lonely highway.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="OUXs9N0SU5uY1LbAX0KkSg==cb7Uqqx1e/mCUi2c15wkkSLzBZsAh8E7EY1eYatz0sRgoWjcnQF0skBeHY9LMVb4g1I"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="ivo5lo69YjRRCJCjXJMi7w==cb7Js98ArKf0GhUDW6ADt1VHqR4bqeXS/iBzf5/pasJLI9zpmuhCs468Zj70+STKDdL"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
