---
title: "Ending Strength"
date: "2024-06-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-06-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32207"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32207"
---

One of the consequences of youth culture is that there is not a lot of
thought put into the fitness of old people. What little there is on the
subject is either aimed at peddling drugs or peddling the crackpot idea
that you are as young as you feel. The former looks at the swelling
population of geezers the same way they looked at Covid. They are just
looking for a way to steal more money. The latter tends to promote
activities that have dubious fitness benefits and mostly sell good
vibes.

The main reason for this is Americans are terrible at being old. The
obsession with youth is a core part of the culture. Every political
cycle, billions of words are wasted on what the youth have to say about
things, as if being young makes you wise and smart, when in reality you
are at your dumbest when young. Of course, young people are encouraged
to set new trends and then old people are encouraged to adopt those
trends so they can pretend to be young.

This was not always the way. For most of human history, youth was a
thing humans were quickly ushered through so that they could become
productive members of the family and community. Once children could do
useful things, they were put on a course to learn to be an adult. In the
modern age, it is the reverse. Once someone hits the age of majority,
they are put on a course to maintain the illusion of perpetual youth in
order to avoid thinking much about what comes after youth.

The thing is though, you will spend most of your life living outside of
your physical prime, so preparing for it and maximizing that time should
be important. The old Mickey Mantle joke about how if he knew he would
live as long as he did, he would have taken better care of himself was
funny because it is true. Good fitness habits in the twenties and
thirties are what make for good health in the middle years possible.
Good habits in the middle years are what set up productive later years.

Instead of a fitness culture aimed at maximizing fitness over the long
arc of your life, the focus is on unrealistically preserving youth. Gyms
profit from people hoping to attain a physique that they never had in
their youth and probably never would have attained in their youth if
they tried their best. In their post-youth they are struggling and
failing to attain a goal that makes no sense. Worst of all are the
weight trainers who strive to look like Greek statues, so they can post
shirtless pics on Twitter.

Years ago, a smart guy named Mark Rippetoe wrote a book titled *Starting
Strengt*h, in which he laid out his scheme for basic weight training. It
remains a classic in the weight training world as it explains all of the
important exercises and how they strengthen specific muscle groups. It
made a lot of money for him, but it would have been better if it were
called *Ending Strength*. The reason is the point of exercise in general
is to extend the *useful* years of your body to the furthers possible
limit.

The proposition with regards to fitness is quite simple. If you are
thirty years old, would you trade a few years of looking buff right now
for not being able to climb stairs in the final ten years of your life.
Sadly, most thirty-year-olds would go with looking buff, but no
fifty-year-old worried about such an outcome would take that deal. Yet,
that is the way fitness culture is structured and the thumb is on the
scale to encourage people to take the buff option, long after buff is
plausible.

You can probably blame this on the boomers as the obsession with
perpetual youth started with that generation. Prior to the post-war
years, youth culture was limited to jazz clubs and the <a
href="https://i.guim.co.uk/img/media/034cd0f41843c3a60652516407f62889bbbb0889/263_256_2883_1730/master/2883.jpg?width=465&amp;dpr=1&amp;s=none"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">degenerates</a> who frequented them. In
fairness, boomers did not invent youth culture, but they embraced it,
and they still embrace it. Every potion, product and promotion are sold
to them as the fountain of youth. It will not be long before lifestyle
companies are claiming eighty is the new thirty.

The thing is though, eighty can be a better eighty, if all along the arc
of life the person is encouraged to do the things that pay those
dividends in old age. Regular weight training in the middle years with
the goal of maintaining muscle mass will mean climbing the stairs when
you are eighty rather than buying a stair lift. Functional exercise
aimed at maintaining cardiovascular capacity in your thirties will mean
being able to walk the museum with your grandchildren.

Of course, the reason no one tries to sell a program like this to middle
aged people is the target audience fears old age more than death, so
anything that reminds them that they will one day be old is a no sale.
Still, it seems like there could be some audience for a program that
focuses on extended quality years. The typical white person in American
is in his fifties. This is a guy thinking about how many quality years
he has left and what he can do with them.

That is the warping power of youth culture and a good example of what
happens when the wrong people gain cultural power. Peddling potions and
programs that promise to make you look young and buff is good for the
sort of people who work at card tables in temporary offices where all
the cars in the parking lot are left running in case they have to make a
quick escape. They do not care about the long-term health of the
population, just the short-term profit to be gained from them.

In a way, fitness is a microcosm for the current crisis in that it
focuses all of the attention on the here and now, usually on
unattainable or pointless goals, without thinking about what comes
around the next bend. Most of what ails present day America is the
result of not thinking at all about the second order effects of present
actions. Youth culture has created a population with no sense of time.
Instead of building something to last, it aims for living fast and
leaving behind a good-looking corpse.

What this suggests is that the antidote to what ails us in this age is
the rejection of youth culture and the short-term thinking that comes
with it. Instead of maximizing the moment, the focus must be on ending
strength. The long arc of life, politics and the culture is to be the
best at the end rather than the beginning. People who live with the end
in mind have full lives and a culture full of such people is one that
avoids the present troubles and endeavors to sustain itself for the long
haul.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="eB5HJp0DgnHmftsvtgTJ8A==cb7TFxV1NZZrQBCdEt1/4p9bRCQE0+zvosKVZmybh4K7cKi8/jCel7inX7VGswwAANk"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="H+53nFjir6R8m4An5iWmtA==cb7sF8j2Jd4NZunt+6iYBY7BkUoEtYM1gNAW72Rjfbu9fkHAfFYXwo1uzR5fIr9BYhv"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
