---
title: "Radio Derb September 20 2024"
date: "2024-09-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32724"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32724"
---

[<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />](https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg)

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   02m06s Trump twice lucky
-   09m49s The Grim Beeper
-   15m08s This is not 1954
-   30m12s Trump’s inner gentleman
-   32m19s Scientific American betrays science (again)
-   37m17s Sir Keir speaks American
-   39m08s Et in Arcadia ego
-   42m03s Signoff with Johnny

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/62052191/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Greetings, listeners
and readers, from your manifestly genial host John Derbyshire, bringing
you commentary on the week’s news from a National Conservative point of
view.

As I go to tape here midday on Friday, the week’s big stories have been
Sunday’s assassination attempt on Donald Trump, and the very interesting
advance in military technology we saw in Beirut, Lebanon on Wednesday
and Thursday. I shall give full coverage to those.

Humming away in the background are topics less dramatic but at least
equally consequential, topics concerning the upcoming election,
immigration, and the culture wars. I shall have things to say there,
too. In the matter of immigration, I shall in fact engage in argument
with the Boss himself, Peter Brimelow, not without some trepidation.

As usual, though, before we start Let me just remind you that you can
still make a tax-deductible donation to the Derbyshire retirement
account by mailing an earmarked check to: The VDARE Foundation, P.O. Box
211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759.

OK, the news. First that assassination attempt.

<span id="more-32724"></span>

**02 — Trump twice lucky**.     This was Sunday afternoon about 1:30.
Trump was playing a round of golf at Trump International Golf Club in
West Palm Beach, Florida with Steve Witkoff, an old real-estate buddy.
Quoting from the man himself, speaking at a livestream on X the
following day, [quote](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r4bQC2Fs2RE):

So I was playing golf with some of my friends, it was on a Sunday
morning and very peaceful, very beautiful weather. Everything was
beautiful, nice place to be, and all of a sudden we heard shots being
fired in the air, I guess probably four or five, and it sounded like
bullets, but what do I know about that? Secret Service knew immediately
it was bullets …

End quote.

Just a couple of textual notes there. Trump said it was Sunday
morning; [the newspapers
say](https://time.com/7021475/trump-golf-club-shooter-assassination-attempt-reactions-investigation/) Sunday
afternoon, I went with the newspapers (and so
did [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trump_International_Golf_Club_shooting#Incident)).

And then, the reason I didn’t give you Trump’s own voice for that quote
is that the livestream video I took it from is really poor quality;
trying to extract the audio clip strained my patience to breaking point.

Finally, concerning that last sentence of Trump’s, re-quote: “Secret
Service knew immediately it was bullets,” end quote. They sure did,
because it was *they* who fired the bullets.

One of the Secret Service agents, scouting one green ahead of the
golfers, spotted a gun barrel poking out of the trees around the golf
course. He called the alarm, agents opened fire, and the would-be
assassin ran without having fired a shot. Seeing him racing to his
vehicle, and presumably having heard the gunfire, a passer-by
photographed his licence plate and he was soon pulled over and arrested.

The suspect turned out to be a 58-year-old wack job named Ryan Routh
with a checkered past, originally from North Carolina but now living in
Hawaii, where he runs a small business.

As with the July attempt on Trump’s life, there are strange questions to
which as yet we have heard no answers. For example: phone-tracking
software has determined that Routh took up his position in those trees
lining the golf course around 2 a.m. that Sunday morning; so he was
lying there in wait for nearly twelve hours.

How did he know Trump would be golfing that day? The ex-President
doesn’t issue advance schedules. People in his circle might know his
intentions and blab about them; so of course might golf buddy Steve
Witkoff and people in *his* circle. But why would they blab to a
good-for-nothing lowlife like Routh?

There are other mysteries relating to Routh’s acquaintances and his
inexplicable finances. We can hope for explanations to emerge; but if
the Deep State-media complex is involved here, we shouldn’t
hope *too* much.

Routh has been charged with [two federal gun possession
crimes](https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/25145933-routhcomplaint091624).
He was already a convicted felon, so under federal law he shouldn’t have
had a gun at all. The gun he *did* have had had its serial number
erased — that’s the second federal crime. The FBI says they’re doing an
investigation.

In the context of Routh having apparently tried to kill the
ex-President, those federal gun charges seem picayune.

Among those who feel that way there is Ron DeSantis, Governor of
Florida — the state, remember, in which the whole thing happened. Quote
from the *New York Times*,
Tuesday, [quote](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/17/us/politics/trump-assassination-attempt-investigation.html):

After the FBI announced it was investigating the incident, Gov. Ron
DeSantis of Florida, a Republican, announced that his state would do its
own research on what had happened.

\[*Inner quote*.\] “In my judgment, it’s not in the best interest of our
state or our nation to have the same federal agencies that are seeking
to prosecute Donald Trump leading this investigation,” \[*end inner
quote*\] DeSantis said on Tuesday morning at a news conference in West
Palm Beach, raising the possibility that the suspect, Ryan Routh, could
face a state charge of attempted murder.

End quote.

So I guess you can add Governor Ron to the list of Americans who don’t
trust the FBI, along with me and several million others.

In commentary on this event, the deepest and darkest depths of suspicion
were given voice by Mark Steyn on Monday. [Edited quote from
Mark](https://www.steynonline.com/14649/they-want-him-dead):

In the last two months, Trump has been lucky twice. There are another
two months to go: can he be lucky thrice? Four times?

This mini-spate of lone shooters is beginning to feel a bit like the
2024 version of Russian interference: they’re getting us used to the
idea of Trump being an assassination target, so that the ultimate
“October surprise” won’t seem such a big deal.

The Deep State is telling us they will not permit Donald Trump to take
office again.

End quote.

At this point I myself am not quite down there in the darkness with
Mark. What he’s suggesting is not preposterous, though — not at all, not
by any means …

**03 — The Grim Beeper**.     And then, at the other end of the week,
the story about the exploding pagers.

The context here is of course the war between Israel and Iran. That’s
how I think of these stories about terrorism and war in the Levant. We
keep being told that the groups fighting against Israel — Hamas,
Hezbollah, the Houthis — are funded, equipped, and supported mainly by
Iran. That means it’s a war between Israel and Iran, to a good first
approximation, doesn’t it?

Whether it is or not, this latest development is a very impressive piece
of undercover work on the part of — presumably — the Israelis. Hearing
that Hezbollah would be switching from smartphones to pagers because
smartphones are too easy to locate, the Israelis somehow infiltrated the
supply chain for those pagers and inserted explosive and shrapnel — ball
bearings, I think it was. Then they jiggled the electronics so that a
certain incoming signal would ignite the explosive.

And there you have it: [the Grim
Beeper](https://x.com/Doranimated/status/1836725630001381576). Other
purveyors of dark humor are exercising their wits, too: I just heard the
service provider for those pagers named as ATNT …

The history of war has of course plenty of mass killings. It also has a
good number of *targeted* killings, where some particular enemy person
is assassinated. What we saw this week was *targeted mass killing* — the
first ever, I think.

Sure, there was a small number of collateral casualties. Even allowing
for those, though, these killings were *way* better targeted than the
missiles that Hezbollah’s been lobbing into the towns and settlements of
northern Israel for years now, forcing the Israeli government to
evacuate thousands of citizens from their homes.

You might try explaining that to [Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez](https://www.newsweek.com/alexandria-ocasio-cortez-answers-us-involvement-israel-lebanon-pager-blast-1956132).
On second thoughts, it would likely be [a waste of
time](https://german.stackexchange.com/questions/40023/with-whose-stupidity-do-the-gods-contend-in-vain): *Mit
der Dummheit kämpfen Götter selbst vergebens*.

Not only were enemy fighters maimed and killed with minimal collateral
casualties, these pager bombs must also have played havoc with Hezbollah
morale. If neither smartphones nor pagers can be trusted for
communications, what can? If this supply chain could be infiltrated,
what other supply chains are vulnerable? What electronic
gadgets *can* we trust?

And what *people* can we trust? Bear in mind that Hezbollah, although
its political base is Lebanon, is a tool of Iran, a technologically
sophisticated nation — sophisticated enough to be on the verge of
producing nuclear weapons. Presumably Iran had some part to play in
supplying the pagers to Hezbollah. Didn’t they check them?

I’m guessing that the exploding pagers — and, next day, exploding
walkie-talkies purchased by Hezbollah about the same time as the
pagers — are going to effect a worldwide change of attitude to
electronic gadgets, especially small ones. There have been [reports from
Beirut](https://metro.co.uk/2024/09/18/blasts-heard-lebanon-day-pager-attack-left-3-000-injured-21629003/) of
domestic solar energy systems and air-conditioners exploding.

What, people are asking, if one of those pagers, or some similar
electronic accessory, had gone off in a plane already airborne? Could it
be that smartphones are like fire: a good friend to mankind if properly
managed, a lethal enemy if not? People everywhere are looking at their
smartphones and wondering.

I don’t own a pager or a smartphone myself, so there’s an opening here
for me to be smug. I do, however, own a [flip
phone](https://www.amazon.com/Coolpad-Unlocked-T-Mobile-Android-Clamshell/dp/B08GM7DRXM).
It’s handy for making phone calls when I’m away from the house, although
I don’t use it for anything else. It’s sitting on my desk in front of me
right now. I keep glancing at it, in a way I never used to …

**04 — This is not 1954**.     In my introduction I promised you some
sparring between myself and Peter Brimelow — my boss, as I still
consider him to be, at VDARE.com.

It’s very gentle sparring, I should say. Peter and I have been friends
for a quarter of a century. We hold each other in the highest esteem.
Dedicated readers of my monthly Diary will recall that the Derbyshires
and the Brimelows are in fact blood relatives at the fourth or fifth
cousin level, [according to
23andMe](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2018-10.html#01).

Our difference of opinion here concerns the possibility of mass
deportations. That’s “possibility,” not “desirability.” Both Peter and
I — [along with 54 percent of our fellow
citizens](https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/4885895-mass-deportation-immigration-poll/) —
support mass deportation of illegal aliens. Can it be done, though?

The reference point here is a longish — twelve hundred words — article
in *The Economist*, August 31st. I don’t think you can read it online if
you’re not a subscriber, so to help you out I’ve imaged it to my own
website and put [a link in the transcript of this
podcast](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Economist20240831.jpg).
I apologize to *The Economist* for having thus shamelessly violated
copyright law and beg them not to sic the FBI on me.

September 9th I did [a one-hour interview with Michael
Farris](https://rumble.com/v5earx9-coffee-and-a-mike-with-john-derbyshire-detention-facility-for-the-invaders.html),
posted at his “Coffee and a Mike” vidcast on Rumble. The subject of mass
deportation came up. I’d just been reading that *Economist* piece on the
topic, and it confirmed some things I had already figured out for
myself.

Sure — and I said this on the vidcast, around the 31-minute mark — *The
Economist* is a globalist outlet that favors mass immigration, so to
some degree they are talking to themselves here. Still, stopped clocks
and all that: [Some things are
true](https://arena.org.au/orwell-whose-orwell/) even though *The
Economist* says they are true.

So what did the August 31st *Economist* have to say on the subject?
Subtitle of the article, quote: “Donald Trump’s dream of mass
deportations is a fantasy.” End quote.

They start with the legal obstacles, interviewing an immigration judge
in Dallas, Texas who has 23,000 cases pending. Quote from *The
Economist*:

The grinding pace of Judge Thielemann’s courtroom in Dallas is just one
example of the ways in which carrying out mass deportations would be
harder than Mr Trump allows. In practice, such an effort would be
stymied by legal, logistical and political obstacles.

End quote.

The writer goes on to tell us that 3.7 million amnesty cases are pending
in the immigration courts. Any one of them, if denied, can be appealed.
There are work-arounds that Trump 47 might try; but this paragraph ends
with, quote, “he would face legal challenges.” Oh yes, he surely would,
from a legal establishment most of which hates him.

The article moves on from the legal to the political. Sample, quote from
paragraph ten:

If Mr Trump wins the election in November, blue states may pass more
sanctuary laws to pre-empt any attempt at mass deportations. The result
would be a deportation campaign enforced unequally across the country,
depending on the politics of each place.

End quote.

I enlarged on all that for Michael Farris and his viewers. The
negativity of the *Economist* article fits well with my preconceived
conviction that the activist left has occupied all our key institutions
and can fend off any assaults on its program by relentless lawfare.

A Trump administration that took them on would be facing a mighty army
of NGOs and Human-rights activists, all armored up, sturdy with
government and corporate money, and eager for battle.

We might win a victory now and then, here and there, but the whole logic
of the four-year election cycle is against us — the ratchet effect that
I spoke about [in last week’s
podcast](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-09-13.html#04).

Left activism has a huge popular base. Close to half the electorate —
half of us! — are telling pollsters they plan to vote for Kamala Harris
on November 5th. Whatever happens this election, whatever we might get
done in 2025, 2026, 2027, 2028 could turn to dust in 2029.

We’ve all seen the ratchet effect in action. I’ve seen it myself in New
York City. When I lived there in the late 1980s crime was rampant, city
services failing. Then New Yorkers elected Rudy Giuliani as Mayor and he
cleaned things up. Michael Bloomberg followed him and held the line
where Rudy had left it, more or less.

Then, in 2013, the city voted in radical leftist Bill De Blasio, and
before you could say “root causes” crime was legal again and garbage
piling up in the streets.

Thirty years ago Rudy Giuliani instructed his staff to bar Al Sharpton
from entry to the Mayoral offices. Last week [the City Council passed
legislation](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/12/nyregion/reparations-slavery-nyc.html) authorizing
a commission to develop a plan for reparations to black Americans. The
ratchet effect.

All right, let me bring in Peter Brimelow. I did that vidcast with
Michael Farris September 9th. A few days later, September 14th, [Michael
had Peter on his
show](https://rumble.com/v5evah1-coffee-and-a-mike-peter-brimelow-the-gods-of-the-copybook-headings-rudyard-.html).

Michael brought up the mass deportation issue and repeated some of the
things I had said. Peter, after some courteous remarks about my work in
general, said that I just haven’t thought this issue through properly.

He then countered my pessimism with some statistics on foreign workforce
participation, which declined some under Trump 45 — and in fact even
before Trump took office.

Peter then proceeded with every immigration patriot’s favorite snippet
of history, Dwight Eisenhower’s [Operation
Wetback](https://www.history.com/news/operation-wetback-eisenhower-1954-deportation) in
1954, when more than a million Mexican workers were deported, or
deported themselves, in just a few months.

Peter continued to pooh-pooh *The Economist’s* and my negativity,
pointing out for example that immigration judges, like the one *The
Economist* opened with, are not confirmed in any kind of legislative
procedure, just appointed at the whim of the U.S. Attorney General, who
can of course also dismiss them.

He went on with advertisements for all the things that need doing:
nationwide compulsory E-Verify, an end to birthright citizenship,
exemplary deportation of immigration scofflaws like Ilhan Omar, et
cetera.

All good stuff, and I’m not opposed to any of it. The problem is, this
is not 1954. We live in a country *very* different from the one
Eisenhower presided over.

Nationwide compulsory E-Verify? In a country where powerful lobbies with
legions of lawyers oppose the showing of personal ID when casting a
vote?

Are we quite sure compulsory E-Verify wouldn’t violate [the 1964 Civil
Rights
Act](https://www.amazon.com/Age-Entitlement-America-Since-Sixties/dp/1501106899/ref=tmm_hrd_swatch_0)?
(That’s “1964” as in “ten years on from 1954.”) Are we ready and
equipped to spend a few years — say a couple of four-year election
cycles — going through litigation and appeals to find out?

End birthright citizenship? What, you want to render helpless little
infants stateless? Next thing we know you’ll be [putting them in
cages](https://www.hrw.org/news/2019/07/11/written-testimony-kids-cages-inhumane-treatment-border)!
Human Rights! Fourteenth Amendment! Oh, you want to pass
an *overriding* Amendment? The first new Constitutional Amendment in 32
years? Lotsa luck.

Deport Ilhan Omar? I’d rejoice to see it; but as certain as I am that
the Sun will rise tomorrow, I’m certain that I never *will* see it.

And those immigration judges whose authority is entirely in the gift of
a U.S. Attorney General? Sure, they could all be fired. So what then
happens to the 3.7 million amnesty seekers whose cases are pending? Does
Peter think they will fade away into the mist while the activists and
lawyers and NGOs and cheap-labor lobbyists smile on with approval?

This is not 1954 and these are not Mexicans. At any rate, the faces I
see in video of people [storming our southern
border](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EAqAA_Y9hY0) don’t look like
Mexican faces. I don’t think they’ll be heading in cars with their
washing machines on a U-Haul trailer back to Somalia, Afghanistan, the
Congo, Venezuela, Haiti, Syria, India, Libya, China, …

Come to think of it, I’d like to see a breakdown of those numbers that
Peter cited about the foreign workforce declining under Trump or the
threat of Trump. Those declines were caused by people returning home;
but exactly where were their home nations? Where were they
returning *to*?

In one respect, a simply geographical respect, this still *is* 1954.
Mexico is still our poorer southern neighbor, with two thousand miles of
border to stroll across for a change of scenery or five dollars an hour
better pay. Somalia, not so much.

Here’s the opening paragraph of an opinion piece I published in the
current issue of *Chronicles* magazine, [quoting
myself](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-09-20.html):

The “long march through the institutions” embarked upon by
mid-20th-century leftist activists is almost fully accomplished here in
the United States of America. The commanding heights are all occupied:
schools and colleges, the media, federal and state agencies, the
judiciary, corporations, the big old mainstream churches, even law
enforcement and the military.

End quote.

That’s our condition, I do believe. The enemy is mighty and
well-entrenched. The First Directive for our side is *not* to
under-estimate them.

Victory’s not impossible and I shall vote for Donald Trump in November —
assuming he survives the next six weeks — nursing hope *for* eventual
victory.

Once again, though: The enemy is mighty and not to be under-estimated.
And once again: This is not 1954.

**05 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  Last I heard [there isn’t going to
be](https://www.cnn.com/2024/09/13/politics/trump-no-debate-rematch-analysis/index.html) another
Trump-Harris debate. For this relief much thanks.

My advice to Donald Trump at this point would be to do more
presentations of himself in informal gatherings, among people who (a)
are sane, and (b) don’t take politics too seriously. And yes, I’ll allow
there may be an oxymoron lurking there somewhere.

My sentiments there were inspired by Trump’s appearance [on Greg
Gutfeld’s show
Wednesday](https://www.foxnews.com/media/gutfeld-draws-largest-audience-program-history-trump-appearance).
I watched the whole thing, swallowing down the prejudice I’ve held
against Gutfeld since [he fell in line with the regime
narrative](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2021-11-26.html#05) on
the Brunswick Three back in 2021.

Trump was relaxed and amusing, not at all the frowning, blustering
blowhard we saw in the debate with Harris. He was *normal*. This, I
found myself thinking, is a guy I’d like to know better, on a personal
level.

Sunday’s assassination attempt? Trump joked about it, quote: “I always
said golf is a very dangerous game,” end quote. He then went on with
fulsome praise for the Secret Service agents who’d taken care of the
matter.

All right, this was Fox News, a studio full of Trumpsters. That made it
easier. There’s a gentleman inside the blowhard, though — a smart and
witty gentleman. Thanks for letting him out, Mr President, if only for
an hour.

*Item*:  I’m going to cheat a little here. Friends have been emailing in
to ask what I think about *Scientific American* magazine endorsing
Kamala Harris. This is only the second time in the magazine’s nearly 180
years of publication that they’ve endorsed a candidate. The previous
endorsement was … wait for it … for Biden in 2020.

As to why this happened, [the explanation offered by John
Carter](https://x.com/martianwyrdlord/status/1836291938070167565) on X
is, I believe, sufficient. Dr Carter doesn’t waste a whole lot of words
on it. He just gives pictures of the magazine’s senior staff members —
three males and six females — with a very brief résumé for each.

*Scientific American* broke the hearts of us congenital science geeks
long ago. I had things to say about it [in my podcast for September 4th
2020](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2020-09-04.html#06).

This was quite a long segment inspired by a rash of race denialism among
academics in the human sciences and their journals. I tossed and gored
that for a while, and then … Well, here is where I cheat. I’m just going
to cut’n’paste from that podcast and its transcript from four years ago.
You’re welcome!

{*Clip*:\]  For keening, slobbering, self-flagellating confessions of
guilt, the September issue of *Scientific American* is hard to beat … as
it were.

This touches me more than the other examples, as I was once a keen
reader of *Scientific American*. I can still remember the first issue I
ever read: January 1960, cover story “[The Green
Flash](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/SciAm1960.jpg).”
The magazine has long since gone CultMarx, though, and I haven’t looked
into it for years, [except
when](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2018-03-23.html#04) friends
send me links to especially egregious specimens of wokeness. Which a
friend just did.

Headline: Reckoning with Our Mistakes. Subheading: “Some of the
cringiest articles in *Scientific American’s* history reveal bigger
questions about scientific authority.”

Well, no, they don’t really. The article does, though, reveal how racked
with guilt a respectable old magazine has to be, or pretend to be,
nowadays if it wants to stay respectable. Sample quote.

During the 19th century, *Scientific American* published articles that
legitimized racism … By 1871 Charles Darwin had concluded that all
living humans were descended from the same ancestral stock … But none of
that stopped the rise of scientific racism, including false ideas about
biological determinism.

End quote.

Down with biological determinism! Just because you’re a fish, that
doesn’t mean you need to be in water all the time!

And Darwin had a bit more to say about the descent of man than the
authors of this *Scientific American* article let on. In fact he
wrote [an entire book about
it](https://www.amazon.com/Descent-Man-Penguin-Classics/dp/0140436316/ref=sr_1_1) they
might care to peruse. [Sample
quotes](https://www.amren.com/features/2016/07/why-have-we-unlearned-what-we-knew-in-1900/):

At some future period, not very distant as measured by centuries, the
civilized races of man will almost certainly exterminate and replace the
savage races throughout the world …

Looking at the world at no very distant date, an endless number of lower
races will be eliminated by the higher civilized races.

End quote.

\[*End clip*.\]

*Item*:  British Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer [has been mocked on
X](https://x.com/niall_gooch/status/1835402343397150973) for having
pronounced the fine old English word “Lieutenant” in the American style,
as “Lootenant.”

Quote from the *Daily Mail* parliamentary reporter in the House of
Commons, September
11th, [quote](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-13840105/Quentin-Letts-Whip-Labour-MPs-easier-time-coley-fillets.html):

Amanda Martin (Labour Party, Portsmouth North) paid tribute to the Royal
Navy helicopter instructor who died in a crash off the aircraft carrier
Queen Elizabeth. Sir Keir, trying to echo it, contrived to say
“lootenant” in the American manner.

End quote.

Sir Keir’s blunder shows us — as if we needed showing — the remoteness
of our ruling classes here in the West from any acquaintance with the
military.

It also, I think, gives support to [Ed West’s
theory](https://substack.com/@edwest) that a great many of Britain’s
present woes come from that nation — well, it *used* to be a nation —
having resigned itself to being a cultural colony of the U.S.A.

Having myself once held [the rank of 2nd
Lieutenant](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/Photographs/05_1959-1971/page.html#frimley) in
Her Majesty’s Armed Forces, I don’t think Sir Keir’s offense should go
unpunished. If anyone in an appropriate position of command is reading
this, I would recommend morning pack drill and a week Confined to
Barracks.

*Item*:  I do my share of bellyaching here on Radio Derb, but in moments
of quiet reflection I fall back to thinking that with all its follies
and absurdities, life in the 2020s U.S.A. is pretty darn good.

Now here I have some documentary support for that. The magazine *U.S.
News & World Report* has just issued its latest annual Best Countries
rankings. [Quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-09-20.html):

The analysis took the views of more than 17,000 people across the globe
to assess how well each of 89 nations ranked on categories including
power, openness for business and cultural influence.

End quote.

Uncle Sam came in at Number Three, ahead of Canada, Australia, Sweden,
Germany, the U.K., New Zealand, and Denmark for the Top Ten.

Number Two was Japan — clean, orderly, polite Japan. No big surprise
there.

Even less of a surprise was Number One: Switzerland. That’s the third
year in a row Switzerland has topped the rankings.

Before you apply for a Swiss visa, note please that not all is laughter
and fun in the Alpine Federation.

It certainly wasn’t for Kristina Joksimovic, until recently a
38-year-old Swiss beauty — she was actually a finalist in the 2008 Miss
Switzerland Pageant — who lived with her husband and their two infant
daughters in a very upscale neighborhood near Basel.

[Eight months ago Ms Joksimovic got into a quarrel with her husband
Marc](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-13852269/Miss-Switzerland-finalist-dismembered-husband.html).
The quarrel ended when her husband strangled Kristina to death, chopped
her up with a knife, a saw, and an unspecified garden implement, then
pureed her soft parts in a kitchen blender.

The husband’s appeal for release from custody was rejected earlier this
week by a Federal Court.

The words [Et in Arcadia
ego](https://www.historytoday.com/archive/foundations/et-arcadia-ego) come
to mind. Rest in peace, sweet lady.

**06 — Signoff**.     That’s all I have, ladies and gents. Thank you as
always for your time and attention, your emails and donations. Most
special thanks to my supporter in Seattle.

For signout music I’m going to summon up the late Johnny Cash, with a
flicker of surprise that I haven’t signed out with him before. Wait a
minute … have I? (Checks database.) No, I haven’t.

I’m doing so this week after a listener to last week’s show emailed in
with a comment on that show’s signout. [I gave you Ruby
Helder](https://www.hrw.org/news/2019/07/11/written-testimony-kids-cages-inhumane-treatment-border),
a female tenor, observing as I did so that while female tenors were not
totally unknown a hundred years ago — Ms Helder died in 1938 — I didn’t
think any lady is currently marketing herself as a female tenor.

Possibly not, said my listener, but Johnny Cash, who was six years old
when Ms Helder passed away, may have known one, to judge from the song
I’m about to play you for signout.

I always appreciate instructive and informative emails like this and I’m
obliged to my listener for giving me the opportunity to play Johnny. I
have to say, though — and I could be wrong, my hearing acuity isn’t what
it used to be — I have to say, the lady here sounds to me more like a
contralto than a tenor.

Whatever. There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
