---
title: "The War Of Politics"
date: "2024-09-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-09-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32668"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32668"
---

“War is a continuation of politics by other means” is a famous quote
attributed to Carl von Clausewitz, a 19th century Prussian military
theorist. This line is often used to end discussion about the causes of
a war, rather than to understand the motivations of both sides, but that
is the way to use it. Wars are not just about geopolitics, the disputes
between the combatants, but the internal politics of the parties. In
most cases, the parties to a war are in the war due to internal
political reasons.

We see this with the Ukraine war. For Russia, decades of meddling around
the border of the Russian Federation had reached a critical point
internally. The pro-Western wing of the Russian political class had
maintained that they could deal with elements in the West to address the
concerns of Russia. The realist wing argued that there was no dealing
with Washington, as they were implacably anti-Russian. The oligarchs
sided with the former for financial reasons.

The provocations by the Biden administration along with the superheated
rhetoric aimed at Putin changed the internal dynamics of Russian
politics. On the one hand, this vindicated the position of the realists.
They said all along that there was no way to make a deal with
Washington, because Washington was not honest. It is impossible to deal
with people who come to the table in bad faith. Any deal you make with
them will fall apart because they will never abide by it.

Proof of this was when Angela Merkel said in an interview that the Minsk
agreements over the disputed areas in eastern Ukraine were just a
stalling tactic so the West could arm Ukraine for a war with Russia.
This statement was done to humiliate Putin within the Russian political
elite. This was when the West was sure that sanctions would topple the
Russian state, so it was a bit of anticipatory celebration expecting
that Putin would be out of power at any minute.

Instead, it had the opposite effect. The reason for this is both wings
of the Russian political class wanted a peaceful solution to the Ukraine
issue. They just disagreed about the best course. Western behavior
leading up to the war and throughout the war has convinced both wings
that peace can only come through the defeat of the NATO backed army in
Ukraine. In other words, Russian politics brought war to their border,
but now Russian politics control the prosecution of the war.

That should have been clear to the West in 2022 when the Russians
reorganized their army and military industrial complex in response to
the collapse of the Istanbul negotiators that were skuttled by
Washington. The competition with the West had changed, so the war with
the West was changing. The Russians settled in for a long war of
attrition against the Ukraine army, society, and the West. The Ukraine
war was now part of a larger global conflict with the West.

This is where the war reveals things about politics in the West. It was
clear by the end of 2022 that there was no scenario in which the
Ukrainians defeated the Russians militarily, so the set of possible
outcomes was limited to a total defeat of Ukraine or some sort of
negotiated settlement. This is what realists like John Mearsheimer
argued even before the war started. The trouble is, there are no
realists in Washington or the European capitals, at least none with
influence.

Instead, foreign policy is controlled by a coalition of ideological
zealots and infantilized managers who are easily led by the zealots.
They do this by creating pleasing narratives that always end with the
managerial elite coming out as Churchill in this new version of the last
world war. Every new scheme to win the war always ends with some Western
political figure giving the great speech announcing the triumph of the
forces of good over the forces of evil.

As an aside, it is why the usual suspects broke out in hives when Tucker
Carlson had on his show a historian who questions the role of Churchill.
They immediately started calling Cooper and Carlson Nazis, not because
either of them defended Hitler or the Nazis, but because they questioned
the archetypical hero of the modern political narrative, the figure
every managerial striver sees in the mirror. Cooper did not just
question the narrative, but the point of the narrative.

That aside, we see this political dynamic in the conduct of the war. The
Western political class is the audience, demanding a good war narrative.
The ideologues are the producers, who collaborate with the writers and
show runners in Ukraine. Together they create narratives like the Great
Ukraine Counter Offensive of 2023 or now The Great Kursk Offensive for
the fans in the political class. The military logic of these schemes
does not matter, because it is all about the politics of the West.

Now that The Great Kursk Offensive has turned into a military disaster
for Ukraine, the series will be cancelled, so the usual suspects are
busy working on a new show to put on for the Western political class.
This time it will probably include firing long range missiles into
Russia to “humiliate the Putin!” You see, despite it all, the main plot
line says that in the end, someone in the West will be the idealized
Churchill, triumphing over Putin, who they have bizarrely cast as their
Hitler.

This war has also altered geopolitics. The Chinese, who had a similar
dynamic in their political elite as the Russians, experienced a similar
evolution in thought about how they deal with the West, especially
Washington. The Chinese have been quite blunt in their assessment of
Washington. They have repeatedly told high ranking Biden officials that
the constant lying is an impediment to good relations. If the Chinese
think your candor is a problem, you have a serious problem with honesty.

Returning to Clausewitz, this war has allowed Russia and China to
reorient global politics away from the unipolar, post-Cold war
arrangements toward a multipolar world based in regional interests. This
has been made possible by the war exposing the superciliousness of
Western political leaders, but also the childish ignorance of the people
allegedly making policy in the West. The world is starting to see the
West as a setting sun and men close their doors to the setting sun.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="1erPfIkj5OoCfkpPpdCeRw==cb72owGdN4cVP+/LqXoEqPSMWdQbjcaClxfj9eLWa0YswFmtWLZZlCfLoeKkdnZ2aV5"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="1zl/qDA/zTLDC5V+Comt4Q==cb7bqvU7GMixCMRmCNaxMIWU4rwDhVQFJPLOjYm8IET7geILHGNnTEK8to7O9u2CeR+"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
