---
title: "The Ukraine Calendar"
date: "2024-07-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-07-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=32364"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=32364"
---

Lost in the firehose of events this past month is the fact that there is
a race against the clock going with regards to the Ukraine war. In fact,
the decision to force Biden out of the race may have been tied to what
is happening with Ukraine. The war that has become the defining feature
of Joe Biden’s tenure is heading for a finale, but the timing of that
final is unclear. The shape of the finale is what has Europe’s political
class pacing the floors while following events in Washington.

The most important fact on the ground is that the Russians are steadily
advancing across the entire front, with the exception of the south. The
Russians have not gone on the offensive in that area for some reason,
but that could be changing. There are reports of increased activity
along that part of the front. Everywhere else, the Russian army is
slowly and methodically grinding up the Ukrainian army and slowly
advancing one village and stronghold at a time.

Since the summer of 2022, the goal of the Russians has been to limit
their losses while maximizing Ukrainian losses, even if it meant not
advancing along the front. One of the primary demands by the Russians
before the war started was the demilitarization of Ukraine and now that
is a primary goal of the war. Every day Russian drones circle over the
front looking for men and equipment to destroy. As a result, the Ukraine
army has been taking a steady beating for eighteen months.

As things stand, the Ukrainians have three main problems. The big one is
they have no defense to Russian glide bombs. This means the Ukrainians
cannot maneuver to counter Russian advances. As soon as they are
spotted, a fifteen-hundred-pound bomb lands on their position. The
second problem is the Russians are about to split the front, thus
cutting the Ukraine army in two. This brings up the third problem which
is the inability of Ukraine to coordinate across the front.

An army that cannot move, cannot defend itself against the enemy and
cannot coordinate between its units is a sitting duck. The Ukrainian
soldiers are tenacious and fearsome fighters, but they are now in an
impossible position. Morale is becoming a serious problem as reality
sets in on the troops. Insubordination is increasing and that means the
military leaders have another constraint. Their soldiers now often
refuse to go on the attack or defend their positions.

What the Russians ultimately want is for Zelensky or his successor to
sign an agreement ceding the Russian speaking areas, Crimea, and
whatever lands the Russians think will compensate them for the war. They
also want Ukraine to agree to the other demands regarding
demilitarization and plots to join NATO. The Russians think that if
Ukraine signs a deal, Washington will have to recognize it. That may be
a dream but that is what they are thinking.

That is the first deadline. The people running the Biden administration
do not want this to happen under circumstances, much less before the
autumn. Now that Biden is out of the picture, the goal is to set things
up so Russia hawks infiltrate and subvert any efforts by the Harris
team. Of course, if Harris proves to be too ridiculous even for the vote
rigging schemes, then putting this tar baby in the lap of Trump is the
goal and that means Ukraine holding on until January.

Sensing the clock is running out on him, Zelensky is now <a
href="https://www.newsweek.com/kremlin-responds-zelensky-raises-prospect-talks-putin-1928410"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">making noises</a> about sitting down with
the Russians. What he seems to understand is that if Trump wins, the
Russians can dictate whatever terms they like to Ukraine. The reason for
that is Trump is not only uninterested in continuing the war, but he
remembers how Zelensky helped the Democrats impeach him. It is better to
cut a deal before Trump wins the election than after, as Zelensky will
then have no leverage.

There is another angle here for Zelensky. The so-called nationalists
understand they are dead if Zelensky cuts a deal with Russia. Their only
path to survival is the war continuing and then maybe devolving into a
guerilla war. Of course, Zelensky understands this too. He has to decide
if he must first order his army to move on these nationalist units,
before or after he starts talks with Russia. His life literally depends
on timing this out exactly right.

Of course, the Russians understand this as well. They most likely expect
Zelensky to talk about a deal, maybe even start talking with the
Russians, but not commit to anything, until it is clear which way the
election will go. What is unclear is whether the Russians want Zelensky
to sign the final deal or his successor. They may roll the dice and wait
until the election, figuring either result is fine. Regardless, they now
have time on their side so they can keep doing what they have been
doing.

The other player in this drama is Europe. The European political class
has bet everything on the Ukraine war. Now they face the prospect of
Trump returning to power and then pulling the plug on Project Ukraine.
Like Zelensky, they have to worry that Trump did not forget that
European intel agencies helped his political enemies plot against him
during his first term. Regardless, they now are in a race against the
clock to “Trump proof” NATO regarding Project Ukraine.

The trouble with all of this, however, is the war may end much faster
than anyone is expecting, except maybe the Russians. Most of Ukraine now
has electric for only a few hours a day. This means the urban centers
have water a few hours a day. It also means the no food that requires
refrigeration. Of course, this makes the distribution of essentials
nearly impossible in major cities. The constant pressure of the war
could bring about a civilian collapse at any time.

The interesting and ironic aspect to all of this is the two players in
this game with time on their side are Trump and Putin. Trump is under no
pressure at all with regards to Ukraine, as he has no stake in it.
Putin, of course, is now holding most of the cards, so he can wait until
the others show their hands. Proof that the universe has a sense of
humor will be that the two winners in Project Ukraine will be the two
guys linked by the creators of project Ukraine in the Russian collusion
hoax.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="ZugFXLuO2sZBpgUdOnuWUg==cb7rVLyepI551Uw9Yk0TJRrkqO8Pn9EsQZzgjg5M1f6jaDBhcr2B66kiiF2BF14q+q0"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="btaR434BExGmsEimKwZySQ==cb7RakjlY9EeilsgYwWxawqIenLO1rU15EM1VbeJ3/YJZhQucvblgk2EFNja2OvGG4R"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
