---
title: "The Setting Sun"
date: "2024-01-30T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2024-01-30T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=31492"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=31492"
---

According to news reports the United States is about to get more
directly involved in the slowly evolving regional war in the Middle
East. The Biden administration is planning to authorize attacks on
Iranian assets in response to the attacks on the American bases in
northern Iraq and Syria that killed three American soldiers. The nature
of the attacks on Iranian assets is unknown, but reports suggest they
will focus on militia groups that operate in the Iraq and Syria,
allegedly backed by Iran.

Most of the analysis suggests that this is part of a game by the neocons
running Biden policy to instigate a war with Iran. They want this game
of tit-for-tat, hoping Iran will take the bait and do something the
administration could then use as a reason to launch a full-scale attack
on Iran itself. Others suggest the administration will avoid hitting
anything important in order to avoid escalation. The United States is
not prepared for war with Iran, so will try to avoid it.

This raises an important question. Could the United States ever reach a
point where it could have a winnable war with Iran? Conventional wisdom
does not contemplate this question, as conventional wisdom remains stuck
in the 1990’s when the American military was able to blitzkrieg the
Iraqi army in Desert Storm. Since then, it has been assumed that every
opposing army is no better than the Iraqi army and the results would be
the same if they messed with the U.S.

The war in Ukraine should have dispelled that myth. Modern war is not
much like Desert Storm, especially when it comes to powerful countries.
Iran is a powerful country in the region and she can project power well
outside her borders. The fact that the Houthis are firing relatively
inexpensive missiles at Israel all the way from Yemen should give
everyone pause when thinking about a war with Iran.  The Iranians have a
vastly better missile program than the Houthis.

In other words, missile technology has changed modern war. The Israelis
are finding this out in the now bogged down war in Gaza. They are able
to take out most of the rockets and shortrange missiles with their air
defenses, but not all. The cost of defending against these missiles is
very high, while the cost of producing rockets and missiles is
relatively low. That is the major change in modern war. It is about the
relative cost of technology between weapon systems.

This brings us back to the dreamed of war with Iran. The <a
href="https://www.militarytimes.com/news/2019/06/04/what-war-with-iran-could-look-like/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">dream</a> says it will not be a regular
war with an invading army but a massive air assault. The dream of the
shock and awe campaign never dies. The trouble is the Iranians have very
good air defenses that can take down cruise missiles. Again, this is a
lesson from the Ukraine war where the Ukrainians were initially able to
defend against Russian missiles. The Iranians would not be able to
defeat every missile, but many of them.

This is where things get tricky. The Russians learned that the only way
to effectively use their missiles was to first defeat Ukrainian air
defenses. They did this by flooding the system with missiles and cheap
Iranian drones. Those attacks on Ukraine energy facilities were about
draining the stock of Ukraine air defense missiles. Once the Russians
depleted the Ukraine air defense, they then started attacking the
launchers, radar stations and command centers.

It took the Russians about a year to defeat the Ukraine AD system. They
launched an estimated seven thousand missiles of various types and
massive numbers of cheap drones that they now produce on their own. The
United States has about four thousand cruise missiles it could throw at
Iran. It does not have cheap drones it can use to flood the Iranian air
defense system. It is not clear how many dummy missiles the United
States has for attacking air defenses.

You can quickly see the problem. The way to attack a modern air defense
system is not with super smart and super expensive missiles. The air
defenses simply keep pace so the cost-benefit ratio never changes. The
way to defeat the Iranian air defense system is the way the Russians
defeated Ukraine’s system. You throw masses of relatively cheap missiles
and drones at it until they run low on ammunition and then you attack
the air defense system itself. The U.S. cannot do this.

Then there is the reverse problem. The Iranians have built up their
anti-ship systems to the point where they could hit U.S. surface ships
operating in the Persian Gulf, which presents an obvious problem.
American ships have sophisticated air defense systems but they are not
equipped with unlimited missiles. Iran could throw waves of drones at
these ships, much as the Russians did to the Ukraine system. This is
also what the Houthis have been doing in the Red Sea.

There is a bit of irony to all of this. The long-forgotten Iran – Iraq
war was a foreshadowing of the future battlespace. Both Iran and Iraq
had relatively expensive aircraft they could deploy against enemy
positions, but they dared not risk them against relatively inexpensive
air defenses. Iran in particular was able to neutralize the superior
Iraq air force this way. The result was something like we are seeing in
Ukraine where both sides relied on artillery and massive mine fields.

The microprocessor revolution has allowed air defenses to catchup to
even the best air assault weapons in terms of effectiveness. More
important, it has allowed air defenses to surpass air power in cost
effectiveness. On the other hand, cheap technology has resulted in cheap
drones that can evade and overwhelm expensive air defense systems with
the result being a stalemate in the air. Like land war after the
introduction of the machine gun, air war is now a war of attrition.

The post-Cold War assumption was that American technology was such a
force multiplier there was no need to focus on the production of cheaper
weapons, especially cheap air weapons. America’s high-tech air force and
missile systems would own the skies in any war. The result of this
technological revolution is that American air power is no longer
unchallengeable and that means the American military is no longer an
unstoppable force that can bully the world.

One final change makes war with Iran unlikely. In the two Iraq wars, the
United States could muster forces in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. In the
first war they also had forces in Turkey, but the Turks refused in the
second war. This created a logistical problem leading to a much slower
invasion. In a war with Iran, the Saudis would not host American troops
and the Turks would certainly not do it. In other words, America no
longer has the local support for a land war in the region.

This is why there will not be a war with Iran. Even if the United States
does something stupid and attacks Iran itself, the Iranians know time is
on their side. America cannot maintain those bases in Iraq and Syria
much longer. Iran can use local militias to attrit those facilities
until they must be withdrawn. In the next decade the United States will
not be a player in the region. This is why the Saudis are in BRICS and
why Iran can bide its time and avoid a war with the United States.

The Biden administration will put on a show by attacking caves and
bunkers in Iraq and Syria, but avoid hitting anything important. There
is a good chance they warn Iran in advance in order to make sure nothing
bad happens. A flunky from the administration will come out and explain
why these attacks were important and the slobbering toadies in regime
media will dutifully repeat it. Meanwhile the sun sets a bit more on the
American empire in the Middle East.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to kick in a few bucks, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> subscription and get some extra
content. You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 432 Cockeysville, MD 21030-0432.
Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Promotions: **<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Good
Svffer</a> is an online retailer partnering with several prolific
content creators on the Dissident Right, both designing and producing a
variety of merchandise including shirts, posters, and books. If you are
looking for a way to let the world know you are one of us without
letting the world know you are one one is us, then you should but a
shirt with the
<a href="https://goodsvffer.com/products/lagos-trading-company"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Lagos Trading Company</a> logo.

The <a href="https://peppercave.com/shop/ols/products" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Pepper Cave</a> produces exotic peppers, pepper seeds
and plants, hot sauce and seasonings. Their spice infused salts are a
great add to the chili head spice armory, so if you are a griller, take
you spice business to one of our guys.

<a href="https://abovetimecoffee.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Above Time Coffee Roasters</a> are a small, dissident
friendly company that roasts its own coffee and ships all over the
country. They actually roast the beans themselves based on their own
secret coffee magic. If you like coffee, buy it from these folks as they
are great people who deserve your support.

<a href="https://havamalsoapworks.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Havamal Soap Works</a> is the maker of natural, handmade
soap and bath products. If you are looking to reduce the volume of
man-made chemicals in your life, all-natural personal products are a
good start.

<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">Minter &amp; Richter
Designs</a> makes high-quality, hand-made by one guy in Boston, titanium
wedding rings for men and women and they are now offering readers a
fifteen percent discount on purchases if you use
<a href="https://www.minterandrichterdesigns.com/discount/ZMAN"
rel="noreferrer nofollow noopener" target="_blank">this link</a>.
<span class="highlight"><span class="colour"><span class="font"><span class="size">If
you are headed to Boston, they are also offering my readers 20% off
their <a
href="https://www.airbnb.com/users/7988017/listings?user_id=7988017&amp;s=3"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">5-star rated Airbnb</a>.  Just
email them directly to book at
<a href="mailto:sa***@*********************ns.com"
data-original-string="aoq5oLgM0VoQftx7EI0uYg==cb7dI9DXcctRa3QEs4Yo1K37nX1j+t8YF6xF+b+723DPLnXsEuv2avLkKyCZaUmlXiJ"><span
class="apbct-email-encoder"
data-original-string="6eGCb1V37h4wBGg4yhvydg==cb7HJVu4CN9LyrMPutHH43ewjrfjppWvHvtR5R6EOiJ+CT4dxyRxvJeliq/4TzSJsr0"
title="This contact has been encoded by Anti-Spam by CleanTalk. Click to decode. To finish the decoding make sure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser.">sa<span
class="apbct-blur">***</span>@<span
class="apbct-blur">*********************</span>ns.com</span></a>.</span></span></span></span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
