---
title: "Temporarily Successful Paupers"
date: "2025-06-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34322"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34322"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about bugmen, a post
about Kilmar Abrego Garcia, and the Sunday podcast. On the Substack side
of the green door, there are now weekly videos. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A basic rule of complex systems is that within them, you get more of
what is rewarded by the rules of the system and less of what is not
rewarded. In the case of human systems, this manifests as status. High
status people will possess many of the qualities favored by the rules,
and low status people will have fewer of those things. The stars of a
sport are those who are either great at some aspects of the sport or
very good at a wide range of favored skills in the sport.

Culture is the word we use for the complex system of rules and
properties that define the societies in which we live. Like all systems,
culture rewards some things and not others and punishes some things and
not others. Status in the culture is determined by the overall quantity
of these things. Some qualities are disqualifying, as the movie mogul
Harvey Weinstein learned. He was very good at making profitable films, a
highly prized quality, but he had habits that were eventually
disqualifying.

This basic rule of systems can help explain why the United States finds
itself in a crisis that, on the surface, seems easy to solve. The
finances of the American empire are not so dire that they cannot be
remedied. Some sacrifice would be needed, but with sound leadership, the
fiscal house could be set right quickly. The same is true of the foreign
policy challenges. The demographic and cultural issues are more complex,
but the answers are known. It is a question of execution.

The most vexing problem of the current crisis for most people is why
nothing gets done to address the known issues when the solutions are
fairly obvious. On the one hand, there is an industry that exists to
explain why the politics of each issue is such that the right answer can
never be considered. On the other hand, there is libertarianism and
conservatism that offer escape from the reality of the problem. These
are the people who start every sentence with “all we need to do is…”

The corruption and escapism surrounding the question of why the issues
that plague the country are never addressed are not explanations. They
are part of the set of things that are caused by the core issue. We have
gotten a hint of this in the first months of Trump’s second attempt at
the wheel. He simply did things, like void longstanding executive orders
on affirmative action. Suddenly, a man with the will to act was acting
on a problem of politics, and the problem stopped being a problem.

What the first months of the new Trump term show is that leaders can
simply act, and their actions can change the rules of the system. The
racial rackets are suddenly in crisis because one man signed his name on
some paper. We are seeing the same thing with immigration, where the
political center is now speeding so quickly in the direction of the
patriotic position that people are struggling to keep pace. It is as if
there is a revolution going on in elite opinion.

This returns us to the question of why the same thing has not been done
with regard to the main issues of the current crisis. The reason is
systemic. The system rewards certain types of men and not others. That
means our elites are high in the qualities that are rewarded and low in
the qualities that are needed to solve the problem. The fact that Trump
is universally hated in Washington speaks to the fact that he is high in
qualities that the political system abhors.

An example of how this works is Mark Cuban, the billionaire who used to
own the Dallas Mavericks and now agitates people on social media. He is
a billionaire and therefore a member of the elite. The difference
between Mark Cuban and the people in the stands at an NBA game wearing a
team jersey is only about money. In fact, Cuban was one of those people
as the owner of the team. He was not just the owner. He was the number
one superfan of the team.

John Steinbeck coined the phrase “temporarily embarrassed millionaires”
to describe the attitude of the typical American. The American Dream
says that through hard work and determination, you can become wealthy.
There is also the sense that serendipity plays a role in getting rich.
You increase your odds of getting that winning ticket to the upper
classes if you work hard. In this regard, Mark Cuban is the
manifestation of this concept, as he got rich through hard work and
serendipity.

There is a flip side to this that is clear with Cuban. Our elites think
of themselves as temporarily successful paupers. The same turn of
fortune’s wheel that made them rich could easily make them poor again.
This is why American elites are so desperate to imitate the ways of the
lower classes. It is as if they feel they must be penitent in order to
prevent the hand of fate from sending them down the economic ladder.
This is why rich celebrities are so fond of playing the victim.

Of course, it is not merely dumb luck that explains success. Hard work
and determination play a major role, but the main driver is the relative
quality of those things rewarded by the culture. America is a
materialist society that rewards those who are good at our peculiar form
of economics. Mark Cuban got rich because he was able to fob off onto
tech billionaires a company that turned out to be worthless, but at the
time looked like a goldmine.

Elon Musk became the world’s richest man by flattering the political
class that his businesses were holy crusades. If they invested public
money in those enterprises, they would not only bring salvation to
society but also be seen as virtuous. Without hundreds of billions in
public money, Musk is just an eccentric weirdo. His love for Donald
Trump now looks like opportunism. It was a chance to run the same game
on the MAGA movement that he ran on the left for so long.

The recent public feud between Trump and Musk is useful in understanding
something else about our elites. Musk feels like Trump used him, but he
should not be shocked, as to be an elite means being a tool. Success in
economic endeavors is never about higher values or transcendent beliefs.
It is about making the mechanics of the economic system work in your
favor. At every level, the people involved are nothing more than tools
to be used by those above them.

This makes the people at the top the most successful tools in the
system. They are the tools the system uses to exploit the rest of the
tools. It is no wonder then that the political elites use the economic
elites as tools for their success. Trump’s relationship with Musk shows
that Trump has learned how to be good at politics by using members of
the economic elite like Musk as tools in his new trade. In a society of
tools, everyone is eventually used and then discarded, even the elite
tools.

This brings us back to those vexing problems of the current crisis. The
solution is clear, but the execution requires men with the will to do
it. Such men are never mere tools of the system, but men with a sense of
nobility. They are men who understand why old men plant fruit trees.
They have a higher purpose than the mere collection of things, and they
do not see themselves as temporarily successful paupers. Their nobility
is independent of their utility.

The American system does not produce such men because it does not reward
the qualities that such men must possess. In fact, having a higher
purpose is disqualifying in most areas of life. The businessman who sees
his company as part of the social fabric will be ruined by those who can
think only in money. The politician who speaks of sacrifice will lose to
one promising free money. Materialism demands that you live in the
present, so you can never transcend the present.

It was not always so for America. It is the transformation that occurred
in the twentieth century that resulted in a system that produces our
current elites. It is the failure of those elites that will bring about
the end of the system that created them. Perhaps what comes next will
once again reflect the essential American character, but this assumes
there will be enough of those essential Americans to make it possible.
That is the great question at the heart of the current crisis.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
