---
title: "The Great Reckoning"
date: "2025-02-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-02-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33563"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33563"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about the importance of
enjoying the moment, a post on urban dependency culture, a video from my
creek and the Sunday podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

As expected, the lawsuits are quickly piling up as the regime tries to
buy time to regroup after the initial attacks from the Trump
administration. There are multiple cases involving the Treasury, all
aimed at preventing Trump appointees from doing their jobs, at least
without permission from the court. There is one case involving the FBI,
where the judge is asked to stop the Justice Department from looking
into J6 cases. There is at least one case challenging the buyout system.

All these cases have been launched by activists trying to halt the Trump
agenda, but they all have something important in common. They revolve
around a set of core questions about these executive agencies. Who
controls these agencies, by what means do they control them and by whose
authority? The activists are challenging the Trump admin on the claim
that these are independent agencies. They do not report to the
President, so he cannot take these actions.

The trouble with that is there is nothing in the Constitution defining a
fourth branch of government under which these agencies are organized. At
best, it is a bit of make-believe Washington has indulged since Nixon.
The mythology of Watergate says Nixon used these agencies to terrorize
his political opponents, so he was driven from the temple of the people.
Ever since, permanent Washington has waved around the bloody shirt
whenever they did not like what a President was doing.

There is something more important behind this. Watergate was the triumph
of the managerial class over the political class. For fifty years, an
unelected and unaccountable class of experts has been left to run the
administrative state, only indulging the President when it comes to
appointing agency heads. In most cases, the appointees were from the
managerial elite. These people took turns circulating between government
and the Blob.

In his first three weeks, Trump has launched a big arrow offensive on
this system and the underlying logic of it. Once these cases get to
Supreme Court, administration lawyers will point out that there is no
fourth branch of government and that these agencies are part of the
executive. While Congress maintains the power of the purse, it does not
run these agencies. That is left to the executive branch, which means
the President and whomever he appoints to do it.

This seems rather straight forward, but the courts are as corrupt as the
rest of the managerial system, so there are plenty of judges who will
issue crazy rulings to stop the Trump agenda. While the Supreme Court
only has a few ideologically deranged judges, it may not be eager to get
involved. This is fundamentally a political dispute, and the court
prefers to stay out of those. At the minimum, it may wait until they can
choose a clean case to make a clean ruling.

The people filing these suits seem to be banking on the courts dragging
this out and never getting to a final decision. They think if they drag
it out and make it an issue in the midterms, they can win the House and
Senate, then impeach Trump. You can already see hints of this in their
rhetoric. While this may sound insane, given the public response thus
far, these people live in a bubble. That and they have no other options,
given what Trump is doing.

Team Trump seems to be prepared for this. In fact, part of the overall
reform agenda is to get one of these cases in front of the Supreme Court
to argue for the unitary executive theory, which says the President of
the United States has sole authority over the executive branch. Even if
the Court rules that Congress plays a role in how these agencies are
administered, it will be a massive win. It means the administrative
state returns to the control of the political class.

Why is this important?

For the last fifty years, these agencies, along with the media, the
academy and the vast network of not-for-profits has operated independent
of the President. Further, they have used their capture of the
regulatory mechanism and the political finance system to control both
political parties, thus controlling the legislative branch. USAID used
its billions, in part, to control more billions in the budgets of the
agencies, which it directed into its political projects, foreign and
domestic.

The reason elections have had no impact on public policy is that the
people making public policy were not subject to the voters. The
political system became a theater to keep the people distracted. It is
why the politicians have become increasingly frivolous and absurd. When
Congressman and Senators are furniture, props in the theater of
democracy, they tend to be theater kids. No serious person wants to
subject himself to the humiliation rituals required of elected office.

The hammer blow delivered to USAID was aimed at shattering the financial
structure of the Blob by removing the mechanism the Blob used to
circulate money. If they are no longer underwriting the vast network of
non-for-profits and regime media outlets, those entities will struggle
to control the discourse. The DOGE boys examining every disbursements
from Treasury is about starving the Blob of money. The restructuring of
the agencies removes their power over the political class.

The reason the economic elite is backing this is because they see that
the Blob is threatening their interests. It is out of control. When a
girl boss judge in Delaware can crater the state’s economic model, and
threaten the country’s financial model, the system that makes her
possible must be destroyed. A million girl bosses armed with taxpayer
money have set fire to the country for the last decade. What we see now
is an effort to put out the fire and eliminate the fire starters.

In the end, we are in one of those momentous times when the fundamental
questions of every human society are in the balance. Who decides, by
what means do they decide and by whose authority do they decide? The
Constitution answers all these questions, but it has been ignored for at
least fifty years. Trump wants to restore that old political order,
while the Blob seeks to bury it forever. Every civil war and revolution
have been fought over these questions, so the best is yet to come.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
