---
title: "Signs In The BBB"
date: "2025-06-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34286"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34286"
---

**Note:** Last night Paul and I talked about what it means to be a
dissident and why the people we call the left believe the weird things
they do. Watch
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/live/WOHfzdArgZA?si=oRhV2If_AvKyk7Lf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most of the week has been talk about the “Big Beautiful Bill” that is
winding its way through the gauntlet that is Congress. The hold up, as
is always the case, is the Republicans are devoting their time to how
best to use this opportunity to screw over their own voters. To be a
Republican means looking for opportunities to remind your voters that
the political system is hopeless. It is now looking like the Republican
Senate will hand their president a major loss.

While many of the oligarchs have swung to the side of angels, the donor
class in general remains locked into the old nation wrecking model where
both parties are focused on undermining and destroying the majority
population. The cultural atmosphere in Washington is radioactively
hostile to the average American. The broad support for Trump and his
policies is simply seen as proof that the people opposing Trump are the
good guys in this long twilight struggle.

At some point, the effort will shift to peeling off some Democrats in
the Senate to get the votes for the bill, which means giving even more
away to the forces of darkness than was already in the bill. The end
result will be something that has a few crumbs for the majority and
mountains of stuff for the bad guys. The result of the “sausage maker”
that is Congress will be a mighty turd sandwich with those few crumbs
for the majority sprinkled on top like sesame seeds.

In fairness, some of those crumbs are good crumbs. There is $46 billion
to build the wall Trump promised a decade ago. Given how incensed both
parties were over this idea when it was proposed, this should be viewed
as progress. There is a bunch of money in the bill to expand the forces
and facilities needed to expel the invaders. The claim is that the
additional resources will let the government expel up to one million
invaders every year, not including the people nabbed at the border.

That is one of the many lies Washington has fed us over the years. They
claimed that every year one to two million people were deported, when
the number was actually around three hundred thousand. The additional
million or so were people refused at the border for any reason. If
Boobingo from Ghana did not have the right stamp on his passport and was
rejected at the airport in Ghana, then that was counted in the
deportation numbers.

There are tax cuts that actually favor people who work for a living.
There is the “no tax on tips” change, which is a big deal. It also rolls
back the reporting requirements from services like PayPal. Currently, if
you get more than $600 through PayPal, you get a 1099 and then it is up
to you to prove to the IRS that the money sent to you from a friend was
not income. The “gig economy”, people who make money a few bucks at a
time, will get serious tax relief.

One thing not mentioned in the media, because it requires a high school
education to understand, is the planned rollback of energy regulations.
The point of these changes is to allow the administration to kill off
the Gaia nonsense in the energy sector to pave the way for new energy
production. In one of his pressers, Trump casually mentioned the goal to
add 400 GW from nuclear by 2050. That would mean quadrupling the amount
of electric we get from nuclear power.

Along with the immigration measures in the bill, this is where you get a
hint of what is vexing the oligarchs who are backing Trump. They look at
AI and see the cubicle farms in their businesses being filled by robots
instead of humans. That means they will need vastly more electricity
than they currently have, and it means they need to find something to
keep these unemployed people busy. The army of Indians stashed around
the country will have to go back.

It is a bit ironic, in a way, as for decades people have argued that we
do not need more people as automation is reducing the value of labor.
Normal people in the regular world could see it, but the oligarchs did
not see it. Instead, they saw the need for armies of Hindus to cheaply
write code and administer the vast financial skimming models used by the
financial sector. With AI, they can now see what automation means in
their lives, so they are swinging around to the moral position.

Of course, the fact that even with oligarch support this bill is
struggling speaks to the problems of the political system. The massive
amounts of new spending and the failure to include the savings found by
DOGE is a good reminder that the system cannot be reformed though the
normal means. It will take a fiscal crisis and then emergency powers to
fix the government’s finances. Most likely it will require a Robespierre
to pave the way for genuine reform.

In the end, despite the Republican perfidy and conservative cuckery, the
existence of this bill hints that some powerful people are serious about
avoiding disaster. It is one of those tiny steps in the sane direction
on some issues that will either be viewed as too little too late or the
start of the great reordering. Of course, either way, there will be a
great reordering no matter what. The question that hangs over all of
this is whether it comes by the pen or by the sword.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
