---
title: "The Odd Squad"
date: "2025-05-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34235"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34235"
---

**Note:** This is the five year anniversary of the death of George
Floyd, peace be upon him, so I will be part of a Twitter space
discussing the life and legacy of one of our nation’s greatest heroes.
You can listen
<a href="https://x.com/i/spaces/1BRJjmLqrBRGw/peek" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The general assessment of Trump 2.0 so far, by those inclined to support
him, is that his domestic operation is doing great, but his foreign
policy operations is a work in progress, to be generous. It is still
early, and the primary focus should be on domestic policy, but foreign
policy is not unimportant. Thirty years of horrific domestic policy has
often been justified on foreign policy grounds, so they are not entirely
divorced from one another.

The reason the Trump foreign policy operation is struggling can be
understood by looking at the team assigned to implement his policy. The
top foreign policy job was given to Marco Rubio, a guy with zero
experience in this area, other than sitting on Senate committees. A pawn
of the Israel lobby, he also sided with the neocons for his entire
career in the Senate. During the transition, this nomination was counted
as the worst of Trump’s cabinet picks.

Rubio seems to have had some sort of epiphany when it comes to politics
that went unnoticed as he no longer sounds like a neocon. In fact, he
sounds like a critic who has been reading dissident websites. His
commentary on South Africa, for example, is the sort of stuff that used
to get your bank account closed. Even so, Rubio is without experience,
so he is learning on the job, a job that traditionally sets the tone for
the administration’s foreign policy approach.

Things get more unconventional with the national security team. Mike
Waltz was the National Security Advisor until it was revealed that he
was playing footsy with far-left radicals in the media. Then there are
Michael Anton and Sebastian Gorka as Deputy National Security Advisors.
Both are best described as media personalities with close ties to the
neocons. Eli Lake <a
href="https://www.thefp.com/p/magas-machiavelli-the-quiet-rise-of-michael-anton"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">loves</a> Anton and Lake is firmly in the
paranoid anti-Russia social network of neocon media activists.

Then you have Tulsi Gabbard as Director of National Intelligence and
Pete Hegseth as Secretary of Defense, two people with no experience in
their areas of responsibility and zero experience running big,
complicated organizations. Gabbard’s claim to fame is breaking with
Washington on Syria and her party on social issues. Hegseth was a
popular Fox News star with unconventional opinions on the military.
These are Trump’s most out of left field foreign policy picks.

The two defining features of Trump’s foreign policy team is a general
lack of experience on foreign policy issues, and they have earned the
trust of Donald Trump. That last part gets attacked by the media, but it
is important if you are looking to redefine and revitalize the foreign
policy community. Trump needs spear catchers who will do what must be
done to implement policy. What sunk Trump’s first term were all the
people thinking they could use Trump to boost their career.

The main problem is the experience. This is not always a bad thing as
fresh eyes are certainly needed in all of these areas. Old hands would
never think to ask why things are done the way they are done, especially
in how information is selected and filtered before it is presented to
the President. The intelligence people in Trump’s first term gave him
the mushroom treatment. Most of the time, he was left with choices he
did not want but was forced to pick from them.

The real issue here is these people are not just tasked with
implementing Trump’s vision of a new foreign policy, but they have to
figure out what that is and then figure out if they agree with it. It is
not all that clear if Trump’s vision is merely dovish within the context
of the standard Wilsonian model that has dominated America since Wilson
or if it is a rejection of that framework entirely, in favor of the 19th
century conservative approach embodied by the famous <a
href="https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/261175-america-goes-not-abroad-in-search-of-monsters-to-destroy"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">quote</a> from John Quincy Adams.

Added to this is the fact that it is not all that clear if most of the
people have thought much about this until this point. Seb Gorka is
mostly known for being rude to people on Twitter and being a guest on
conservative chat shows. Michael Anton is best known for one essay in
2016 and his
[love](https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2025/05/24/michael-anton-menswear-styleforum-fashion-the-suit-00352586)
of fashion. Tulsi Gababrd is the only member of the team that has
offered original thoughts on foreign policy. For the most part, Trump’s
team is a blank slate when it comes to foreign policy.

This may be a good thing, as at least he has a team that is open to
questioning the status quo, even if they have not formulated an
alternative. The foreign policy community is stuffed to the gills with
people who have been carefully vetted by the Israel lobby and the
neocons. Trump had little choice but to reach outside of that world for
people he could trust and who would try to think for themselves. The
result is an odd squad of neophytes and eccentrics.

It remains to be seen if this works but it explains why foreign policy
is so uneven at the start of this term. It also explains why Trump has
been so reliant on Steven Witkoff, as his personal emissary. He may be
the one guy who understands what Trump is thinking with regards to
foreign policy. There again, we see a man with zero experience in
foreign affairs, outside of business dealings. Like everyone else in the
Trump foreign policy team, he is learning on the job.

This may explain why the Russians are willing to talk to the Trump
people. They see the effort to break from old patterns. It may also be
why the Iranians have agreed to talks with Trump people, despite Trump
breaking their deal in the first term. People who spend a lot of time
studying American politics sense an opportunity to break from the past
with regards to dealing with the Americans. It also explains why the
Russians are so patient with the Trump team.

Again, it is too soon to know how this ends. It is an odd collection of
people held together by a desire to head in a new direction, even if
they have no clue as to which direction they will be heading. Perhaps
for now a desire to break from the past is enough to get the ball
rolling. If they managed to avoid being outflanked by the Europeans and
subverted by the Washington establishment, they might finally create a
plausible alternative to Wilsonian democracy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
