---
title: "Radio Derb January 31 2025"
date: "2025-01-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33513"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33513"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m37s The smack of firm government (cont.)
-   05m13s Déjà vu all over again
-   09m13s The ratchet effect?
-   16m43s Diversity catastrophe?
-   20m03s A science geek, not a law geek, for HHS
-   28m57s Work for Trump, Bukele, and Milei
-   30m34s Brexit + 5
-   32m55s Be nice to the French!
-   36m08s Signoff with the èrhú

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/64107758/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! That was a fragment of
Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 2* and this is your intensely genial host
John Derbyshire with news and views from a National Conservative point
of view.

Well, we are now twelve days into a new Presidency — one that,
Progressives warned us, would put an end to democracy in our country,
led by a man who is the reincarnation of Adolf Hitler.

Yet so far there has been no declaration of martial law, no attempt to
suspend the Constitution, and — so far as I can tell — no preparations
to invade Poland.

Could it be that all those elite Progressives — academics, jurists,
media talking heads — were mistaken? Hard to believe. Well, it’s still
early days; we’ll see.

<span id="more-33513"></span>

**02 — The smack of firm government**.     It sure is nice to hear
what [a great British
newspaperman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_McLachlan#Education_and_career) once
called “the smack of firm government.” Just to reprise a few.

-   Birthright citizenship canceled. At any rate the President has done
    what is in his power to cancel it. What he did will of course be
    challenged, and the issue, which is how the Fourteenth Amendment
    should be interpreted — will end up in the U.S. Supreme Court. If
    they strike down the President’s ruling, there’ll be clamor for a
    Constitutional Amendment. At any rate, there’ll be clamor from Radio
    Derb; I can’t speak for the rest of you. I shall *definitely* be
    clamoring.
-   Pete Hegseth, a combat veteran who believes that the military exists
    to fight wars, confirmed as Secretary of Defense.
-   No more federal money for child sex-change operations. Good! I don’t
    know why these operations are allowed at all; but that’s probably a
    matter of state laws.
-   Federal employees ordered back to their offices. Mixed feelings
    about that. They might do less harm at home playing World of
    Warcraft.
-   [A big
    house-cleaning](https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2025/01/21/justice-trump-removes-senior-staffers-national-security-criminal/) at
    the Justice Department, deep-staters involved in anti-Trump lawfare
    reassigned to issuing and inspecting fur-trading licenses in the
    Aleutian Islands.
-   Pardons for January 6th protestors who were [outrageously
    overcharged](https://nypost.com/2025/01/25/opinion/pardoned-j6-influencer-isabella-maria-deluca-i-dont-regret-it/) for
    petty nonviolent offenses.
-   Eight thousand members of our military who’d been discharged for
    refusing the COVID vaccine now restored to their previous ranks with
    back pay and full benefits.

And best of all, of course:

-   Mass deportation of illegal aliens.

For the first time in years I am actually *enjoying* reading the news.

Yes, I’m enjoying it all just as much as you are; and I’m just as
pleased as you are to see — it’s very plain to see — that Donald Trump
learned important lessons from his first Presidency. He’s staffing up
his administration with people who agree with him!

For all that, I cannot shirk my duty as National Conservatism’s leading
pessimist. I’m the author of a book titled [*We Are
Doomed*](https://www.amazon.com/Are-Doomed-Reclaiming-Conservative-Pessimism/dp/0307409597/ref=sr_1_1),
remember? So permit me, please, to throw a wet blanket over all the
jubilation.

**03 — *Déjà vu* all over again**.     I’m actually experiencing
political *déjà vu*.

This is not the first time I’ve rejoiced to see a feeble, ineffective
government dominated by Progressive ideologues voted out of power to be
replaced by a different party under a leader who voices commonsense
truths clearly and firmly, delivering — yes! — “the smack of firm
government.”

That leader was of course Margaret Thatcher, who was Prime Minister of
the U.K. for the last few months of the 1970s, *all* of the 1980s, and
the first few months of the 1990s, total eleven and a half years. I was
a big fan. To this day my [Margaret Thatcher commemorative
mug](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Huntington2022/2025-01-29al.jpg) has
pride of place among the glassware in my living-room cabinet.

For a sample of Mrs Thatcher’s common sense and a reminder of her firm,
straightforward diction, here she was addressing the House of Commons on
the subject of illegal immigration.

\[[*Clip*](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/qIVMyxN5Jw0):  Those who
are *genuine* refugees — and that is determined again by the United
Nations — will not be returned. Those who are illegal immigrants … those
who are illegal immigrants *will* be returned, and it is customary
international law for countries to receive their own immigrants back
into their country. And if the Right Honourable gentleman is suggesting
that we ever get to a position where you cannot return illegal
immigrants to their country of origin, then he is … he is proposing
international chaos.\]

Mrs Thatcher actually became Prime Minister on May 4th 1979. I had
returned to Britain a couple of weeks before after [three months
abroad](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/Documents/Passports/1969/page.html).
I was somewhat out of touch with U.K. politics, although I knew enough
to cheer when Thatcher won.

My sister and most of my British friends, by contrast, were Labour Party
supporters — Progressives. They weren’t as hysterically crazy as today’s
Trump-haters, but there was definitely a mild Thatcher Derangement
Syndrome going round.

I remember watching TV coverage of the election results at the house of
Progressive friends. They were scowling and shaking their heads in
dismay. As the recipient of their hospitality I tried to curb my
jubilation, but it wasn’t easy.

So yes: these past few days I’ve been experiencing *déjà vu* all over
again. Since the previous episode was forty-some years ago, however, I
can recall how it all worked out in those following years, and
legitimately wonder whether this Trumpian counter-revolution will follow
a similar path.

So how did Thatcherism work out in the long run? Not well, is the sad
answer.

**04 — The ratchet effect?**     That’s the long, *long* run I’m
speaking about. In the early years of her administrations — of which
there were three: she was re-elected in 1983 and 1987, with big
majorities both times — in the early years her brutally realistic
economic policies cost her some popularity with people who lost their
jobs or benefits.

There were some balancing policies that kept her afloat. My personal
favorite was the selling-off of public housing to tenants. My parents
had lived for over thirty years in [a house owned by the local
town](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/Places/Northampton/62friarsave/page.html).
Thanks to Mrs Thatcher I bought it for them at a rock-bottom price. I
sold it ten years later for not much more. I should have kept
it: [similar houses in that
neighborhood](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/UKhouse.jpg) today
sell for about thirty times what I got. Shoulda, coulda, woulda …

[The Falklands
War](https://www.iwm.org.uk/history/a-short-history-of-the-falklands-conflict) of
1982 really swung the country behind Mrs Thatcher and fixed her, even in
the minds of [Chinese
peasants](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2013-04-13.html#02),
as the Iron Lady. That flush of popularity was then fortified when she
survived an assassination attempt two years later, followed by financial
deregulation leading to a boom in the securities markets.

Then in the late 1980s she got tangled in some conflicts with colleagues
and unpopular policies on property taxes. She resigned as Prime Minister
in 1990; but her party, the Conservative Party, remained in power —
which is to say, in control of Parliament.

What followed was seven years of Thatcherism Lite: not so much the smack
of firm government as the gentle pat of neoliberal consensus.

British voters got tired of it. In 1997 they sent the Conservatives
packing and put the Labour Party in power under Prime Minister Tony
Blair. They did not know that Blair was a demon sent up from Hell by
Satan to destroy their country, but they soon found out.

It was Blair’s keen co-operation in George W. Bush’s missionary wars
that woke them up; but even before that Blair had thrown Britain’s
borders wide open, “to rub the Right’s noses in diversity,” as [one of
Blair’s
speechwriters](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-2507533/Immigration-mistake-Come-Jack-Straw-RICHARD-LITTLEJOHN.html) explained.

Thence inevitably to the Britain of today: a poor, failing, unhappy
nation, the streets of her once-noble old cities taken over
by [ululating mobs of fanatical foreign
savages](https://x.com/AshleaSimonBF/status/1884910805793051016), her
schoolchildren taught to feel guilt and shame that their ancestors had
attempted to [civilize half the
world](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2023-03.html#01),
her public services [barely
functioning](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/01/16/world/europe/british-nhs-report-nursing.html).

Mrs Thatcher herself spoke of “the ratchet effect.” Political history,
she thought, proceeds like a wheel with a ratchet. When the Left are in
power they can advance the wheel in their preferred direction, towards
ever more cultural nihilism and civilizational destruction. When the
Right are in power we can only apply the ratchet — halting the leftward
movement, but never really accomplishing any *rightward* shift.

The political history of Britain this past 46 years seems to illustrate
the ratchet effect. Starting from a triumph of the Right 46 years ago,
that nation is how sinking deep into the Leftist swamp.

And that raises the question: Shall we, the U.S.A., follow a similar
trajectory from here to 2071 — from joyful triumph and satisfaction to
the loss of all we cherish in our nation?

I wouldn’t rule it out. Following Trump’s election last year,
Progressivism is taking a break to lick its wounds. It remains a
formidable beast, though, with strong control over key areas of our
public life.

Remember those surveys that come out periodically of professors at our
universities: how many are Democrats, how many Republicans? [I pulled
one up at
random](https://www.thecollegefix.com/zero-republican-professors/) from
the *College Fix*, 2022. They found that half of all university
departments had *no Republican professors at all*.

Possibly that’s changed some in the last three years, but I wouldn’t bet
money on it. The rising generation of intellectuals, schoolteachers,
media folk, doctors, and perhaps worst of all, *lawyers* are being
indoctrinated by Progressives.

Yes, Donald Trump won the 2024 Presidential election. His popular-vote
edge over his opponent, however, was only one and a half percent.
Seventy-five million Americans cast their vote for Kamala Harris — for
Progressivism.

So cherish the hour, listeners; but remember, please, that an hour is,
in the grand scheme of things, not a very long span of time.

**05 — Diversity catastrophe?**     Leading the news this past couple of
days has been the appalling catastrophe Wednesday night in Washington,
D.C., when an Army helicopter collided with a commercial passenger
plane, killing all aboard both — 67 souls in all — and throwing their
corpses, and all the wreckage, into the Potomac River.

In the commentary on this dreadful event there has been a theme — voiced
by President Trump among others — speculating that pressure for race and
sex diversity in hiring for federal agencies, like the one that
supervises Air Traffic Controllers, might have been a factor, reducing
the general level
of [competence](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-01-17.html#03) among
those Controllers.

My instinct is to take a cautious approach on issues like this, where
there is so much human grief involved. I did, though, recall reading
about lowering of standards in Air Traffic Control some years back in
the Obama administration. So I started in on some research, to see what
I could dig up.

Then, browsing on X, I came across [Jared Taylor’s 15-minute
video](https://x.com/realAmRen/status/1885099264151376071) recounting *his* researches.
I immediately abandoned my own inquiries.

Jared’s video is a little masterpiece of investigative reporting. I
can’t even attempt anything half as good. Jared is Mozart; [I’m
Salieri](https://youtu.be/PIHPbvviS2w?t=228).I urge you to set aside
fifteen minutes — actually fifteen and a half, I see — to watch the
whole thing.

After a jihadist went on a shooting spree at Fort Hood Army base, Texas,
in 2009, killing thirteen people and wounding 29 more, Army chief of
staff General George Casey famously remarked
that, [quote](https://nypost.com/2012/10/29/fort-hood-diversity-rules/):
“As horrific as this tragedy was, if our diversity becomes a casualty, I
think that’s worse.” End quote.

Are there people in positions of authority in the federal government
today who feel the same way about Wednesday’s disaster? I have not the
slightest doubt that there are; although whether any of them will be
brazen enough to say it out loud like General Casey, I doubt.

**06 — A science geek, not a law geek, for HHS**.     Second in the news
is the continuing interrogation of President Trump’s cabinet nominees by
the relevant Senate committees. The one that’s been getting the most
coverage has been Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. for Secretary of Health and
Human Services.

I knew very little about RFK, Jr. I remembered him being in the news
last year as a candidate for President, until Donald Trump somehow
persuaded him to drop out and endorse the Trump ticket.

From before that I had even dimmer memories of him occasionally being in
the news for something or other. I couldn’t have told you of
any *specific* things he was in the news for, but they’d left me with
the overall impression that he’s a nutty conspiracy crank.

Striving for fairness again, I looked him up. What kind of education did
he have? Let’s see.

-   Undergraduate degree: B.A. in American history and literature from
    Harvard.
-   Postgraduate degree one: J.D. from the University of Virginia School
    of Law.
-   Postgraduate degree two: Master of Laws from Pace University.

OK, so pretty well-educated … but not really in the way I’d want in my
HHS Secretary. No *science*.

I’m not saying the HHS Secretary should hold degrees in nuclear physics;
but there should be some sign in his educational record that he has an
empirical, quantitative cast of mind and a curiosity about the natural
world — a generally *scientific* cast of mind.

I want my HHS Secretary to know the difference between median and mean,
between bacterium and virus, between false positives and false
negatives. Does RFK, Jr. know basic science stuff like that? Somehow I
doubt it.

My morning newspaper, the *New York Post*, didn’t do anything at all to
turn me towards a more favorable view of RFK, Jr. Very much the
contrary. They’ve been running opinion pieces under blistering headlines
hostile to the nominee, headlines like these:

(Jan. 28th)  **Senators, vote ‘nay’ to a Health hazard like RFK**

(Jan. 29th)  **JFK kid: ‘Predator’ RFK Jr. ‘unqualified’**

(also Jan. 29th)  **RFK JR. ANTI-VAX STANCE A ‘SCAM’**

(yet again Jan. 29th)  **RFK? No Way!**

(Jan. 30th)  **POLS STICK IT TO BOBBY   Rip into Trump HHS nom’s vax
double-speak**

(Jan. 31st)  **RFK JR. STANDS BY VAX DOUBTS Won’t deny autism link in
Senate grill**

(I took the headlines and dates there from the print newspaper; the
online versions sometimes differ.)

Sample quote from the first one there, [longish
quote](https://nypost.com/2025/01/27/opinion/senators-vote-no-to-rfk-jr-whos-still-a-radical-left-lunatic-hazardous-to-our-health/):

On the eve of his hearings, Kennedy now claims he’s not “anti-vaccine,”
that he simply wants there to be more “transparency.” But RFK Jr.’s idea
of transparency is whatever helps his trial lawyer friends.

He has made a career in litigation out of pointing out a rare side
effect, which there often are, then claiming the whole thing is faulty
for profit.

The job of the health secretary and the Food and Drug Administration is
to put the *many* first — how do we help the most people with a
treatment? RFK exploits the *rarity*. All it takes is one person with a
symptom — that maybe isn’t even associated with the drug or vaccine —
and you have a lawsuit. He wants to give conspiracy theorists and legal
opportunists material to twist to his own ends.

And RFK Jr. will continue to make money off this, having stated he won’t
stop taking payments from his ambulance-chasing lawyer friends even as
health secretary.

End quote.

The article I’m quoting there is an unsigned editorial, by the way, so
if there is anything false in it, JFK, Jr. has a strong case for a
defamation lawsuit against the newspaper. Which he would jump on,
because … he’s a lawyer.

And yes: for an unscrupulous lawyer, I can see that vaccine lawsuits are
a fertile field. Sure: a vaccine may harm you, or even kill you. But
then, so might the thing you’re being vaccinated *against*. It’s a
balance of risks, like so much else in life.

That’s the mindset of a science geek, though; and as I’ve observed,
there doesn’t seem to be anything of the science geek in RFK, Jr. He’s a
law geek, looking for a lawsuit. Different mentality.

I understand, of course, that Trump’s nomination of him is entirely
political. As tiny as RFK, Jr.’s voter base surely was, it might have
pulled enough votes away from Trump to give Kamala Harris a victory. He
did Trump a favor by dropping his candidacy and endorsing Trump. Trump
wants to return the favor. I understand.

I just seriously doubt that HHS Secretary is the right reward for this
particular guy. Surely there’s some place he could do less harm, and
stand a better chance of surviving the Senate confirmation process?

**07 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  George Canning was an early 19th century British statesman
who served two spells as Foreign Secretary. For diplomatic and
commercial reasons to do with Britain, France, Spain, and Portugal he
strongly supported the independence of the rebellious Latin-American
colonies. He explained it all to the House of Commons in 1826 in a
sentence he is famous for, quote: “I called the New World into
existence, to redress the balance of the Old.” End quote.

Today, with Britain and the European countries — including France,
Spain, and Portugal — all in the doldrums, perhaps it’s time for us in
the New World to again redress the balance of the Old.

I can think of several New World leaders who might do useful work on
that: Donald Trump of course, but also Nayib Bukele, the President of El
Salvador, and Javier Milei, President of Argentina. All three guys are
very good with the smack of firm government …

*Item*:  Today, January 31st, at 11pm Greenwich Mean Time, marks the
fifth anniversary of Brexit, when Britain officially left the European
Union.

Brexit has to go down as one of the greatest missed opportunities in
history. If Britain had been led by people of courage and imagination,
she could have recovered her national independence, as those who’d voted
for Brexit supposed she would.

Unfortunately the country was led by mediocre seatwarmers with about as
much collective imagination as a cage full of parrots. Their idea of
national independence was kowtowing to the [European Court of Human
Rights](https://www.echr.coe.int/), which is a lawyers’ ramp, just like
everything else with “Human Rights” in its name.

If only Maggie Thatcher had been in charge! Or Donald Trump, or Nayib
Bukele, or Javier Milei.

The Gen Z cohort over there — that’s young people aged 13 to 27 — would
scoff at that as unacceptably tame. They want dictatorship, according to
a study that’s causing some worried comment over there.

[Sample
quote](https://www.thetimes.com/uk/media/article/gen-z-doubts-about-democracy-laid-bare-in-worrying-survey-vsxx509n3) from
the London *Times*:

Fifty-two per cent of Gen Z … said they thought \[*inner quote*\] “the
UK would be a better place if a strong leader was in charge who does not
have to bother with parliament and elections.” \[*End inner quote*.\]
Thirty-three per cent suggested the UK would be better off \[*inner
quote*\] “if the army was in charge.” \[*End inner quote*.\]

End quote.

*Item*:  Just one more on the Brits. They’re building a new battle
submarine for the Royal Navy. Planning and construction has been under
way for some time, back to when Queen Elizabeth was still alive.

Royal Navy ships’ names have to be approved by the monarch. For this
submarine, the Navy suggested HMS *Agincourt*. That’s the name of a
battle that took place in the Hundred Years War between England and
France back in the fifteenth century. It was a great and glorious
victory for the English against superior numbers, and for King Henry V,
who led them into battle. Someone wrote a play about it, but I forget
the details.

Queen Elizabeth approved the name *Agincourt*. Then she died, and her
son Charles became King.

Last week we learned that the submarine’s name has been changed. It
won’t be HMS *Agincourt*, after all. It’ll be HMS *Achilles*. Britain’s
Ministry of Defence was apparently worried that *Agincourt* might offend
the French, reminding them of that defeat six hundred years ago.

[The BBC says](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c86375y545yo) King
Charles was involved in the decision somehow. He certainly must have
approved the name change.

When Brits — including even a British *monarch* — worry about hurting
the feelings of the pouting, primping, frog-eating French, Britain is
definitely finished. Perhaps those Gen Z-ers are on to something …

**08 — Signoff**.     That’s all, ladies and gentlemen. Thanks as always
for your time and attention, your encouragement and support. May you
enjoy good health and prosperity in the Year of the Snake.

Yes, Wednesday was Chinese New Year’s Day. Tuesday evening we had a
family banquet. There were eight around the table: Dad, Mom, Son,
Daughter, grandson, Son’s girlfriend, and an older couple we’ve known
for years: yet another English native married to yet another Chinese
lady. The unmarried received gifts of money from the married
in *hóngbāo* red envelopes, [according to
tradition](https://theconversation.com/what-is-the-story-of-hongbao-the-red-envelopes-given-out-at-celebrations-like-lunar-new-year-247687).

Family and old friends: a warm, convivial evening, with proper deference
to tradition and more food than we could finish. Life is good!

On behalf of the VDARE Foundation, which is still a going concern with
plans for the future, please permit me to remind you that Peter Brimelow
now has [his own Substack account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/),
which of course you should subscribe to. You can support the Foundation
itself by mailing a check to us at P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”,
CT 06759; and you can support me personally by earmarking the check with
my name, or by any of the alternative options spelled out [on my
personal website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). VDARE
thanks you and I thank you!

Just to record this being the first week of a New Year on the
traditional Chinese calendar, here’s a bit of traditional Chinese music.
The title is 月夜愁, which translates as something like “Moonlight
Melancholy.”

The Chinese Wikipedia tells me that there’s [a whole family of
songs](https://zh-m-wikipedia-org.translate.goog/zh-hans/%E6%9C%88%E5%A4%9C%E6%84%81?_x_tr_sl=zh-CN&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=en&_x_tr_pto=sc) with
that title, going all the way back into traditional Taiwanese folk
music. Taiwanese pop star [Jody
Chiang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jody_Chiang) had a hit with one
such song twentysome years ago: [there’s a
link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WYs_87FXIS8) in the Radio Derb
transcript, if you’d like to listen to it.

For signoff I’ve gone with an older instrumental version, the principal
instrument here being an [*èrhú*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erhu),
which is a two-string Chinese fiddle — a longtime favorite of mine.
Furthermore, I’m giving you the *least* melancholy passage in the
recording — the allegro, as it were. I don’t think they could dance to
this [even in West
Virginia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7SwInLwtNZY).

If Allah wills it, there will be more from Radio Derb next week.
