---
title: "Generations"
date: "2025-05-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34188"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34188"
---

**Note:** On Tuesday nights, I participate in a Twitter space where we
discuss spicier topics than you find in the news. The replay of last
nights episode
<a href="https://x.com/i/spaces/1YqxoomXRmvxv/peek" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Generational politics is one of the cruder forms of politics as it
generally reduces to members of one age cohort hurling slurs at other
cohorts. Ironically, the origin of this form of politics is the baby
boomer generation, who were the first group of Americans to form an
identity around their birth cohort. Baby boomers have since been
synonymous with the post-war cultural trends and the radical politics
that came to dominate the second half of the twentieth century.

These days, of course, “boomer” has become an epithet due to their
children using it to describe degenerate or materialistic culture.
Boomers are selfish old people who only care about their stock
portfolios and their lawns. They are the “greedy geezers” of this age,
which is ironic in that the term first gained traction decades ago as
the baby boomers started to take over politics. This is another example
of how the universe has a sense of a humor and cruel streak.

Of course, thirty years ago when terms like “greedy geezer” were getting
tossed around, the culture was undergoing a generational shift. The WW2
Generation was giving way to the baby boomers. Bill Clinton came to be
seen as the typical boomer, ushering in a new set of morals and
sensibilities to politics. For the last thirty years, baby boomer
politics have been American politics. Now they are seen the out of date
politics of a quickly fading era.

We are about to experience another generational culture shift as the
children of the baby boom generation begin to push their parents over
the side. This is why the term “boomer” has become an epithet. The
derogatory use of the label is a signal that the user is not into
conventional culture and politics. To reject “boomer politics” is to
reject the old-fashioned dichotomy of left-versus-right, as is defined
by cable news programs, talk radio and the mainstream media.

We are getting a glimpse of this in the Trump administration. Donald
Trump is technically not a baby boomer. This must be said because
otherwise you get six million messages explaining that the baby boomer
generation starts with those born after noon on June 30th, 1946, and
Trump was born on June 17, 1946. It is this sort of hairsplitting that
makes generation politics so mind-numbingly stupid. It makes the blue
pencil crowd seem stable minded by comparison.

That aside, Trump is emblematic of the politics and culture that we
generally associate with the baby boomer generation. He is
materialistic, hedonistic, and jarringly superficial in his politics.
For example, his main interest in ending the Ukraine war is so we can do
business deals with the Russians. The history and geopolitical import of
what he is doing is never mentioned by him. For Trump, it often seems
like that the only thing that matters is the acquisition of stuff.

Contrast this with J.D. Vance, the millennial man in waiting. His story
is centered on his cultural journey from the underclass into the
managerial class and then as a critic of the managerial system that made
him possible. He is the most articulate critic of managerialism to ever
hold office in Washington. It remains to be seen if he wins the White
House on his own, but he is clearly setup as the heir to Trump. He will
take the baton on behalf of his generation from the boomers.

Despite the millennial disdain for baby boomer culture, they are the
results of it due to the fact they were raised in the product of it.
Things like helicopter parenting and structured play time were boomer
creations. Millennials are the first generations raised by people who
used the word “parenting”, so it is no surprise that the millennials are
the first to use the word “adulting.” They were raised to expect a
highly structured and safe environment where everything is clearly
labeled.

There is far greater cultural intensity with millennials than prior
generations. For the boomers, generational politics was mostly about
marketing cultural items like clothing, lifestyle choices, and music.
For millennials, culture is tangled up in the structure of life, so they
are more keenly aware of themselves as a cohort. They are the first
generation to sense that their identity is entirely exogenous.
Individually and collectively, they are who they are because of
taxonomical reasons.

This shift in generational identity can be seen in how millennials react
to generalizations versus how baby boomers react. Make a generalization
about baby boomers and you get flooded with boomers telling you that
they are not like that. Make a generalization about millennials and they
will agree and amplify it. Because conformity has always been a part of
millennial cultural awareness, conforming to generational stereotypes
does not bother them. It is their normal.

This is another thing with millennials that is different from boomers.
They expect the systems they inherited to work as described on the box.
The two sides of millennial politics are from those raised on the
mother’s milk of post-Marx culturalism and those raised on civic
nationalism. The former is perpetually angry that things are not fair,
and the latter is determined to make things work as described to them.
Vance versus AOC is a duel between competence and anxiety.

That brings up something else about millennial culture. It is focused on
the present, but in the context of what was promised. This makes it
backward looking. The Vance side is determined to remake things, so they
are what he expected, rather than something new that is a break from the
past. The AOC side is similarly determined to remake the present to fit
the promise, but the promise came from the New Left politics that sunk
roots in the culture when her parents were kids.

Generational politics can only take you so far in getting a sense of
what lies ahead for the culture and politics. Reality is the great
restraint, and the millennials are inheriting an enterprise in decline,
while their parents inherited one that was at its peak. This is the
heart of the millennial critique of the boomers. They see their parents
as living off the profits of the past and they see themselves as tasked
with cleaning up the mess after a long generational party.

This is why the millennial age could turn out to be quite conservative.
Necessity will mean relegating luxury beliefs to the fringe. No one has
time for the hysterical and childish politics of the AOC side when there
is work to be done, debts to be paid and institutions to be
restructured. Millennial politics could be the domination of the
organizational men, who take pride in making the machine operate and
have no tolerance for throwing sand in the gears.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
