---
title: "The Great Economic Shakeup"
date: "2025-01-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33493"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33493"
---

Imagine a society made up of farmers who produce what they need to live
but also trade extra to one another for things they do not produce. This
is not the most efficient society, but as long as everyone is
self-sufficient, it works. At the minimum, each farm produces enough
food for the family, even in lean years. Perhaps like the Amish, they
voluntarily come together on larger projects that are shared by everyone
and individual projects that require a lot of hands.

One day, someone comes along with an offer to one of the farmers.
Instead of that farmer trading with the other farmers, this stranger
will buy the excess for what the farmer wants in trade. He makes this
deal with other farmers and before long he makes his living as the
middleman. He does the trades between the farmers, keeping a little
extra for himself in the process. Before long there are others doing
similar and they all live in what they call town.

Now, imagine all the farmers decide to quit farming altogether and move
to town to be traders and merchants. Obviously, that cannot work as now
there are no farmers to produce the things the traders are trading, and
the merchants are selling. Some of the farmers can quit, but not all.
Additionally, some can begin to specialize to the point where they are
no longer self-sufficient. They now rely on the traders and merchants in
town to get the things they need to live.

In other words, the original model works just fine, but it is not
efficient. The farmers are all just above the sustenance line. The
introduction of middlemen makes for more efficient use of farm labor, so
everyone can do a little better. Specialization in farming and in
trading increases productivity. Somewhere in this model there is a mix
of farmers, traders, merchants, and specialization that attains the
maximum amount of productivity for this society.

That productivity, however, must benefit everyone. Otherwise, we get the
problem of the farmers looking at the townspeople and deciding they
would prefer to be a trader, rather than a farmer. There also must be a
balance with regards to specialization, as this could make the
productive class overly dependent upon the middlemen, who can then
maximize their profits from the productive class. A society with a small
number of people controlling all the profit is inherently unstable.

Therein lies the problem Trump inherits in terms of the economy.
Starting in the 1970’s with the microprocessor revolution, the American
economy has been hellbent on maximizing efficiency. Wherever technology
can increase the output from labor, it has been done, often overdone. In
fact, the data shows that efficiency has gone up far faster than wages,
so we tipped past the happy balance long ago. While the overall economy
continues to grow, it grows only for a minority of citizens.

On top of that, we long ago blew past the balance between producers and
middlemen described in that prior scenario. A couple of generations of
Americans have been trained to work in the middleman economy, often
doing busy work related to boutique beliefs like diversity of climate
change. Meanwhile, the productive sector atrophied or was shipped off to
other parts of the world. The American economy is more like a global
counting house now, rather than a self-sufficient economy.

The global bank model has run its course. The rest of the world, for
various reasons, is disconnecting from the American model. The rest of
the world is unwilling to do like the farmers in that model and turn
everything over to the middlemen. That town full of merchants and
middlemen is noticing that the farmers are not coming to town to trade
their goods as much they did in the past. Suddenly, the skim from the
work of the farmers is getting too small to sustain the townsfolk.

It is not a perfect way to think about it, but it helps understand the
economic problems Trump inherits as president. It is why he is convinced
that shifting from a tax system focused on labor to one focused on trade
is a winner. It will help shift labor from busy work in cubicles back to
doing productive things because the cost of imports will rise relative
to locally produced items. Foreign producers will adjust by investing in
production inside America.

The practical problem Trump inherits is the American economic model
evolved to favor the middleman over the producer. Over time it led to
the imbalance we see between producers and facilitators. It also led to
a narrowing of profit to a shrinking number of players in the economy.
In some ways, the American economy has become a digital version of the
Bronze Age palace economies in that everything flows through financial
and information centers that operate as skimming houses.

Fixing the imbalances within the rules of the system is impossible. This
<a
href="https://jackrasmus.com/2025/01/24/bidens-pernicious-presidential-legacies-print/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> by an economist calling himself
Jack Rasmus explains how the tools available to government no longer
work to address the practical imbalances. The people controlling Joe
Biden poured almost four trillion in extra money into the system, but it
did nothing to mitigate the problem of shrinking middle-class budgets.
Prices keep rising while wages remain static, which means most people
are getting poorer.

The only way out of the current trap is through systemic changes. That
is why Trump is fixated on tariffs as an economic and policy tool. On
the one hand this brings costs back in line with prices, so the market
regains some coherence. If the real cost of an item is in the price of
the item, then people will reward the genuinely lower cost items. In the
current model, the cost of cheap goods turns up in the loss of social
capital, delayed family formation and, of course, high crime.

A simple example is prepared food. These are cheap for the consumer but
are packed with hidden costs. The refrigeration units used to be made in
America, but those plants were shipped abroad by the miracle or tariff
free trades deals. Of course, the plants are often staffed with cheap
foreign labor, the cost of which turns up in your property taxes, the
crowded schools, and the healthcare system. That frozen pizza turns out
to be vastly more expensive than the price on the box.

Multiply this out all over the economy and it is easy to see the
problem. Fifty years ago, middle-class families could get by on one
income. Today, it takes two-incomes which is why there are far fewer
families. Ours is an economy that looks prosperous on the outside, but
the internals are littered with hidden costs. The only way to remedy
this is to bring the costs back to the front of that frozen pizza and
that can only be done through systemic change.

There are three challenges. One is the small number of people profiting
from the current model will fight reform. That is not insurmountable.
Trump having some of the richest men on earth in his corner will help a
great deal. The bigger problem is the transition cost, which will come
in the form of recession. There is no escape from it. The early 1980’s
were the cost of transitioning from the productive economy to the
middleman economy, so expect similar as we transition back.

The biggest challenge in this project is a dysfunctional managerial
class that sees any change as a challenge to their position. The
middleman economy was very good for the sorts of people who have a long
list of impressive sounding credentials but view tangible accomplishment
as a disqualifier. The army of managers in the managerial state cannot
survive a transition out of a middleman economy. Like the aristocracy in
18th century France, they will not go quietly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
