---
title: "Radio Derb January 17 2025"
date: "2025-01-17T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-17T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33440"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33440"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   Radio Derb Podcast, 1/17/2025
-   Table of Contents
-   01m53s World Logic Day
-   09m09s The Competence Collapse
-   16m00s Economist fixes Africa
-   19m35s French theater fiasco
-   22m28s A new Botany Bay?
-   26m10s How is Tété-Michel Kpomassie doing?
-   30m39s The immigration racket
-   39m28s Where is Vivek?
-   40m13s Usha, Tennyson, and me
-   41m41s Can the universe think?
-   43m04s Signoff for California

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/63732718/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>** width=”560px” height=”315px;”

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Welcome, listeners.
That was Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 2* and this is your logically
genial host John Derbyshire with news and commentary.

First, however, a little housekeeping. The website VDARE.com remains in
suspense thanks to the evil machinations of New York State’s
well-upholstered Attorney General. However, the parent VDARE Foundation
is very much alive, and planning for the future.

The latest development there is that Peter Brimelow, who got the whole
thing started 25 years ago, now has [his own Substack
account](https://x.com/peterbrimelow/status/1879318792997913075). You
can subscribe, and I urge you to do so.

You can support the VDARE Foundation itself by mailing a check to us at
P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759. You can support me
personally by earmarking the check with my name, or by any of the
alternative options spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). Thank you!

End of housekeeping. Let’s see what’s in the
news.<span id="more-33440"></span>

**02 — World Logic Day**.     Did you know — I bet you didn’t — that
Tuesday this week, January 14th, was [World Logic
Day](https://wld.cipsh.international/), as proclaimed by UNESCO in 2019?

If you *did* know, I hope you took the opportunity to advance the cause
of logic somehow, although the event’s website isn’t very clear how.

My own contribution was to chuckle quietly while remembering my own
studies in formal logic under [Professor
Kneebone](https://www.amazon.com/Mathematical-Logic-Foundations-Mathematics-Introductory/dp/0442043511/ref=sr_1_1) at
London University sixty years ago. I find I can, without looking, still
rattle off the first four of the nineteen valid syllogisms: [Barbara,
Celarent, Darii,
Ferioque](https://philosophy.stackexchange.com/questions/17935/how-do-i-use-the-barbara-celarent-etc-mnemonic) —
there you go. Those who understand, will understand. I must at some
point have known the other fifteen; but sixty years is a long time and I
had too much wine with my dinner this evening.

I can remember some of the more complex deductions, too. How about the
destructive dilemma? Here is an example of the destructive dilemma,
ahem:

If this man were wise, he would not speak irreverently of Scripture in
jest; and if he were good, he would not do so in earnest; but he does
it, either in jest, or earnest; therefore he is either not wise, or not
good.

That comes from [Archbishop Whately’s
book](https://www.amazon.com/Elements-Logic-Richard-Whately/dp/1417949171),
published 1826; so that, and the nineteen valid syllogisms, belong to
traditional or classical logic, before the twentieth century came along
with Gödel, Wittgenstein, Turing, and the rest to turn logic upside
down, inside out, back to front, and top to bottom.

Is logic even a formal academic discipline any more? I assume some of it
still gets taught, in math courses (like mine) or computer science; but
are there any independent Logic Departments in our colleges and
universities? I doubt it.

Logic doesn’t play much of a role in most human affairs. Let’s suppose I
can choose a course of action: either do A, or B, or C. How to decide?
It’s not likely that pure logic will be the determining factor. The
logical impulse is too easily swamped by love and loyalty, status
striving, pride and prejudice, or one of the other Deadly Sins.

The sad fact is that in the ordinary dealings of life, logic doesn’t
have a firm hold on our minds: on *anyone’s* mind, even the mind of a
logician.

There’a a nice illustration of that in [the late Paul
Johnson](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2023-01.html#01)‘s
1988 book *Intellectuals*.

In that book P-J tossed and gored some of the big-name smarty-pants of
the past two hundred years: Rousseau, Marx, Tolstoy, Sartre, and so on.
Chapter Eight of the book is about the great twentieth-century logician
Bertrand Russell. It closes with the paragraph I’m going to quote.

The year is 1968. Russell, aged 96, was retired from active public life
but still liked to make his voice heard. He used his aristocratic title,
Earl Russell, and had been awarded the Order of Merit, a high honor in
British culture. Johnson, aged 40, was a seasoned journalist, editor of
the leftist weekly magazine *The New Statesman*. Over to
him. [Quote](https://www.amazon.com/Intellectuals-Marx-Tolstoy-Sartre-Chomsky/dp/0061253170/ref=sr_1_1):

As for logic, that too was only invoked when required. During the Soviet
invasion of Czechoslovakia, Russell was persuaded to sign a letter of
protest, along with a number of other writers. I had the job of
negotiating its appearance in *The Times*. With the signatures in the
customary alphabetic order, the heading on the letter would have been
“From Mr Kingsley Amis and others.” I decided, and the *Times* Letters
Editor agreed, that it might have more effect in the Communist world if
it read “From Earl Russell O.M. and others.” So this was done. But
Russell noticed this small deception and was angry. He telephoned to
protest and eventually reached me at the printers, where I was putting
the *New Statesman* to press. He said I had deliberately done it to give
the false impression that he himself had organized the letter. I denied
this, and said the sole object was to give the letter maximum impact.
“After all,” I said, \[*inner quote*\] “if you agreed to sign the letter
at all, you cannot complain when your name is put first — it isn’t
logical.” \[*End inner quote*.\] \[*Inner quote*\] “Logical
fiddlesticks!” \[*end inner quote*\] said Russell sharply, and slammed
down the receiver.

End quote.

**03 — The Competence Collapse**.     The word “competence” has been
having a good airing in public commentary outlets. Just today I see an
article headed [Cleaning Up the Culture of Incompetence Starts in
D.C.](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/web/cleaning-up-the-culture-of-incompetence-starts-in-d-c/) on
the *Chronicles* magazine website.

The author, Robin Burk, tells us that, quote: “Our country’s culture is
teetering on the edge of a fatal fragility.” End quote. The root cause,
he argues, is the, quote, “dysfunctional culture of the Beltway.”

I’m sure you’ve heard us say, when discussing the matter of lawfare —
the kind of thing that brought down VDARE — you’ve heard us say that
“the process is the punishment.” In our big federal bureaucracies, says
Burk, the process is the entire point. The process — inquiries,
consultations, debates, speechifying, selling failures to the media as
successes, benefitting financially by cosying up to special interests —
has taken over completely. It’s all process, no results. The means have
consumed the ends.

Christopher Roach over at *American Greatness* January 14th takes a
wider, more systemic approach. Headline: “[LA Fires Illustrate a
Nationwide Competency
Crisis](https://amgreatness.com/2025/01/14/la-fires-illustrate-a-nationwide-competency-crisis/).”
Sample quote:

A well-designed system can withstand incompetent executives, some
affirmative action appointees, and even a shortfall in funding for one
year. But most systems cannot withstand all of these things, year after
year, which seems to be the unifying factor in Los Angeles’ current
predicament.

End quote.

Towards the end of his column Roach tells us that, quote: “An important
essay on complex systems and the competency crisis made the rounds last
year, and it remains very relevant to what has happened in California.”
End quote. He provides a link to that essay.

I didn’t know about that essay so I followed the link. The essay is from
June 2023 in *Palladium* magazine, author Harold Robertson. Sure enough,
it has the word “competence”in its title. Actual title: “[Complex
Systems Won’t Survive the Competence
Crisis](https://www.palladiummag.com/2023/06/01/complex-systems-wont-survive-the-competence-crisis/).”

Longish quote:

In the first decades of the twentieth century, the idea that individuals
should be systematically evaluated and selected based on their ability
rather than wealth, class, or political connections, led to significant
changes in selection techniques at all levels of American society. The
Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) revolutionized college admissions by
allowing elite universities to find and recruit talented students from
beyond the boarding schools of New England. Following the adoption of
the SAT, aptitude tests such as Wonderlic (1936), Graduate Record
Examination (1936), Army General Classification Test (1941), and Law
School Admission Test (1948) swept the United States. Spurred on by the
demands of two world wars, this system of institutional management
electrified the Tennessee Valley, created the first atom bomb, invented
the transistor, and put a man on the moon.

By the 1960s, the systematic selection for competence came into direct
conflict with the political imperatives of the civil rights movement.
During the period from 1961 to 1972, a series of Supreme Court rulings,
executive orders, and laws — most critically, the Civil Rights Act of
1964 — put meritocracy and the new political imperative of
protected-group diversity on a collision course. Administrative law
judges have accepted statistically observable disparities in outcomes
between groups as *prima facie* evidence of illegal discrimination. The
result has been clear: any time meritocracy and diversity come into
direct conflict, diversity must take priority.

The resulting norms have steadily eroded institutional competency,
causing America’s complex systems to fail with increasing regularity.

End quote.

There you have it in plain English: the thing we all know but may not
say. The way to get high levels of competence is by rigorous testing and
evaluation. There will, however, be disparities in outcome of those
procedures, notably disparities by sex and race. If society finds that
intolerable, then society must kiss competence goodbye.

**04 — *Economist* fixes Africa**.     “The thing we all know but may
not say …” Yeah. *Do* we all know it, though? Perhaps not; not in the
matter of race, anyway.

The editors of *The Economist*, for example, seem not to know it. In the
center of last week’s issue was a twelve-page Special Report titled “The
Africa Gap.” It begins by telling us that, quote:

The economic gap between Africa and the rest of the world is getting
wider.

End quote.

Oh dear. What’s to be done? Well, this is *The Economist* and what they
mainly write about is of course economics — a subject my understanding
of which is rather weak, I’ll admit. Within those limitations, the
magazine’s prescriptions don’t sound altogether implausible. Sample:

Everyone with a stake in Africa must think big. Countries need
development bargains that allow for the emergence of large firms and
productive industries.

End sample. Uh … OK, I guess. Another sample:

There is an urgent need for African policymakers and business leaders to
set their own far-reaching goals for economic transformation and rally
their people behind them.

End sample. Sure, sounds OK. [One more
sample](https://www.economist.com/leaders/2025/01/09/the-capitalist-revolution-africa-needs):

There is no reason to catastrophize or give up hope. If other continents
can prosper, so can Africa. It is time its leaders discovered a sense of
ambition and optimism. Africa does not require saving. It needs less
paternalism, complacency and corruption — and more capitalism.

End sample. Well, yay for capitalism! The other thing’s been tried out
all over, and results weren’t good.

Still, I’d feel more sure that I hadn’t just wasted my time reading
those twelve pages if the *Economist* had included some acknowledgment
of [results out of the human
sciences](https://www.astralcodexten.com/p/how-to-stop-worrying-and-learn-to) this
past half century: some occurrences of the term “IQ,” perhaps, or even
just “human capital.”

But no: If the *Economist* writers do indeed know about such things,
they’re keeping the knowledge to themselves. Hey, it beats getting fired
and blacklisted.

**05 — French theater fiasco**.     For connoisseurs of irony, the
French Theater Story has been a fun fest. If you don’t know it, here’s
the story.

In Paris there is a theater named the Gaîté Lyrique, which translates as
“Lyrical Gaiety.” It’s a Progressive establishment — “known for its
radical, leftist programming,” [says GB
News](https://www.gbnews.com/news/world/migrant-crisis-french-theatre-immigrants-takeover-conference-paris-gaite-lyrique).

December 10th the theater staged a free event titled “Reinventing the
welcome for refugees in France,” with talks hosted by academics from the
universities and officials from the Red Cross. Admission was, as I said,
free, and progressive activists rounded up more than 250 homeless
Africans from the streets of Paris to fill out the audience.

The event seems to have gone well. When it finished, though, the
Africans refused to leave the theater.

Five weeks later they are still there, and their number has swollen to
more than 300. The theater has had to cancel all performances, and with
no income from ticket sales looks like going out of business.

The *Daily Mail* quotes theater management as saying
that, [quote](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14282399/French-theatre-bankruptcy-250-African-migrants-refused-leave-remain-building.html):
“The sanitary conditions are deteriorating day after day.” Yep, I bet
they are.

Local businesses have also suffered loss of revenue. Quote from the
proprietor of a local bistro:

They are ruining my business … They hang around outside my terrace,
smoking joints and fighting among themselves. Not only do we no longer
get theatergoers because the theater is shut but we don’t get passers-by
either. They’ve being frightened away by all these young men.

End quote.

Young men, huh? Aren’t refugees usually women, kids, and old folk? Eh,
just kidding.

**06 — A new Botany Bay?**     Greenland continues to be in the news, or
at any rate a popular topic of public discussion. I’ve been reading up
on the place. It’s bigger than I thought. Spot quiz: In total land area,
Alaska and Hawaii included, the U.S.A. is *X* times the size of
Greenland. What is *X*? Are we twenty times the size of Greenland, or
thirty times, or what?

Answer: four and a half times.

To flip it round, is Greenland bigger than Texas? If so, how much
bigger? Answer: Yes, Greenland’s bigger than Texas — more than three
times the size.

So sure: Given all we’ve been hearing about new sea passages in the
Arctic, mineral deposits, the ambitions of China and Russia, and so on,
Greenland is a big and consequential place. Should we buy it? Take it by
force? Have the Greenlanders vote on becoming our 51st state? Or what?

Personally I’m not keen on incorporating Greenland into our sovereignty.
The population is ninety percent Eskimo, or Eskimo-European mix. It’s
not likely many of our people would want to settle there. We’d basically
be acquiring another humongous Indian reservation. [Gregory Hood argues
that
case](https://www.amren.com/commentary/2025/01/greenland-importing-yet-another-underclass/) over
at *American Renaissance*.

My guess is that Greenland would be more trouble to us than it would be
worth, under any dispensation. I’ll admit, though, that the Z-man’s
proposal last weekend returned an echo from my bosom.

The Z-man posted thus on X, in relation to an illegal alien from Mexico
charged with kidnapping an American
teenager, [tweet](https://x.com/TheRealZBlog/status/1878129880250159296):

Here is a good use of Greenland. Build a large penal colony there to
send guys like this to live out the remainder of his days. Aliens who
commit violent crimes in the United States get sent to Camp Sunshine on
the island of Greenland.

It would provide jobs and revenue to the locals, who would be free to
administer it as they see fit. No media would be permitted to enter the
colony. Those who tried to sneak in would be confined there forever.

End tweet.

It needn’t be all negativity looking forward. Penal colonies can work
out well. Australia got started as a penal colony. So: Worth
considering, I think.

**07 — How is Tété-Michel Kpomassie doing?**     I very artfully placed
those last two segments in juxtaposition so that they could beget this
one.

My previous segment but one was about homeless African invaders making
trouble in Paris. Most of those Africans come from nations that, before
they *were* independent nations, comprised French West Africa.

That would include Togo, homeland of Tété-Michel Kpomassie, the guy I
introduced you to last week — the author of that book *An African in
Greenland*. See how I made such a smooth connection? Eh, there is no
credit nowadays for compositional virtuosity.

Kpomassie’s book, *An African in Greenland*, was published in 1977 and
described his travels in Greenland in the mid-1960s. The author himself
was born in 1941. He wrote the book after going back to live in France.

I got a lot of emails expressing curiosity about Kpomassie’s subsequent
career. Is he still alive? (If so, he’ll be 84 this year.) Did he ever
go back to Greenland? Did he write any more books?

I don’t know the answers with any certainty. Wikipedia has an entry for
him. It tells us
that, [quote](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T%C3%A9t%C3%A9-Michel_Kpomassie#Biography):

Kpomassie currently lives in Nanterre, near Paris, France, but continues
to regularly visit Greenland and his native country of Togo.

End quote.

I don’t know how up-to-date that is, though, and I nurse a lurking
distrust of Wokipedia, so I went scanning around elsewhere.

My main find — it was actually found by a friend, who passed it on to
me — was that Penguin Modern Classics brought out [a new
edition](https://www.amazon.com/Michel-Giant-African-Greenland-Classics/dp/0241554535/ref=sr_1_2) of *An
African in Greenland* in February 2022. My friend turned up some
promotional material from that time telling us that, [quote from one of
them](https://explorersweb.com/tete-michel-kpomassie-african-in-greenland/):

Now approaching 81 years of age, Kpomassie is packing up his Parisian
apartment and heading back to northern Greenland, where he intends to
live out his gloaming.

End quote. And, confirming quote from another
one, [quote](https://ayearofreadingtheworld.com/2022/02/16/my-conversation-with-a-living-legend/):

On some level, he never really left Greenland. And it is why he will
move back there later this year. After a lecture tour, he plans to live
out his days reading and writing in the country that won his heart more
than 50 years ago. “This time,” he says, “I will not return.”

End quote.

Those quotes are from three years ago when the Penguin edition came out.
Did Kpomassie in fact move to Greenland and stay there? Is he still
alive? Don’t know, don’t know. I can’t find evidence of him having
written any other books.

If you want to read the book you can do [an online checkout for
it](https://archive.org/details/africaningreenla00kpom/page/n9/mode/2up) at
the Internet Archive.

Or you could just read [the
review](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Miscellaneous/africaningreenland.html) at
my personal website …

**08 — The immigration racket**.     As a veteran of VDARE.com I take a
particular interest in matters of immigration. I wish I didn’t, though.
The immigration news is invariably depressing.

What’s depressing is that our nation’s immigration system is a colossal
racket. More precisely, it’s a lot of particular rackets piled up in an
unsightly heap.

Guest-worker visas, like the notorious H-1B, are most obviously a
racket. Companies can fire loyal American employees and replace them
with lower-paid indentured workers from abroad.

Student visas are a racket: massively increasing revenue for our
colleges by selling off higher education — a finite, precious national
resource — to foreigners. We shouldn’t be selling our national resources
to foreigners any more than we should sell our land to them …
although [we do that,
too](https://www.npr.org/2023/06/26/1184053690/chinese-owned-farmland-united-states).

These frank cash rackets are obnoxious enough. Even worse are the
refugee programs and the ocean of sanctimonious lies in which they
float. Way out front in trying to expose those lies has been Todd
Bensman of the Center for Immigration Studies. Todd — Mr
Valiant-for-Truth, I think of him — has been especially hard at work
these past few days.

The fruit of that work has been two good, long, well-researched
articles: one posted January 14th at the *Daily Wire*, the other January
15th at the *New York Post*. I’ll give you a brief summary of each in
turn, but I urge you to read them both.

The *Daily Wire* article is headed: “[As Trump 2.0 Approaches, NGOs
Continue To Fund Mass Migration With U.S. Tax
Dollars](https://www.dailywire.com/news/as-trump-2-0-approaches-ngos-continue-to-fund-mass-migration-with-u-s-tax-dollars).”
NGOs are of course Non-Governmental Organizations, 230 of them, many
with reassuringly churchy-sounding names, working together with fourteen
United Nations agencies to thwart Trump’s plans for deportation and
immigration restriction.

How are they going to do that? By keeping alive, keeping well-populated,
the big migration trails up out of Central and South America to the U.S.
border.

But won’t the new administration’s policies leave the migrants stuck
there, unable to cross the border? Sure, but, quote:

The omission of straightforward references to the coming U.S. political
pivot on illegal immigration suggests that the group \[*that is, those
230 NGOs and 14 UN agencies*\] likely assumes funding would be used to
sustain migrants while Trump policies compel them to wait in third
countries, perhaps waiting for — or even facilitating — Trump policy
failure or for a future friendlier U.S. presidency.

Regardless of U.N. intent, in the meantime, a potential — even
probable — consequence of this continuing level of migration trail
support would be to sustain steady pressure on Trump’s border for at
least the next two years, perhaps even enough to induce policy failure.

End quote.

Executive summary: The U.N. and NGOs are going to keep the long
migration trail well populated, ready for a change of U.S. policy. Those
on the trail will be given food, cash in debit cards, hotel rooms,
healthcare, and legal advice.

Who’s going to pay for all that? We are — we, citizens of the United
States. Who do you think funds those U.N. agencies? Mainly us. Just one
of them, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, got 1.9
billion dollars of American taxpayers’ money in 2023.

Todd Bensman’s target in his second piece, published in the *New York
Post*, January 15th, is TPS — Temporary Protected Status. Heading of
this piece: “Biden’s final border lie: That hundreds of thousands of
migrants can’t be deported.”

TPS is for aliens who can’t be deported back where they came from
because the places they came from are too dangerous. A TPS order is good
for eighteen months, but can be renewed. Joe Biden, in one of his last
Presidential acts, granted renewals to 600,000 Venezualans who’d crossed
into our country during his Presidency.

Venezuela sure is in bad shape. As Todd Bensman reports,
though, [quote](https://nypost.com/2025/01/15/opinion/bidens-final-border-lie-that-hundreds-of-thousands-of-migrants-cant-be-deported/):

Almost every one of the thousands of Venezuelans crossing Biden’s open
border already lived in perfectly safe, prosperous other countries that
had granted them asylum, residency, and work authorizations, or
otherwise tolerated their presence off-book — such as Colombia, Ecuador
and Chile.

The only reason hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans living outside
Venezuela left was because they realized Biden would let them into the
US unchecked.

End quote.

So most of those TPS recipients came not from Venezuela but from safe
third countries where they’d lived happily for years … until Biden threw
open our borders and they figured they could live even more happily in
the U.S.A.

That’s the immigration beat: corruption and lies, top to bottom, heavily
seasoned with fake humanitarianism.

The whole filthy system needs a clean-up: a forty-year immigration
moratorium would be just fine, with of course a few hundred special-case
exceptions *per annum*.

**09 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  Vivek Ramaswamy seems to have disappeared. I haven’t seen
him talking or tweeting for several days — not since [that December 26th
tweet](https://x.com/VivekGRamaswamy/status/1872312139945234507) in
which he opined that the U.S.A. has to hire foreign techies because we
Americans aren’t nerdy enough.

I don’t agree with Vivek about everything — I don’t agree
with *anyone* about everything — but I believe on balance he’s a Good
Thing. I’d hate to think that Nerdgate destroyed his political career.

*Item*:  Here’s another person of Indian descent that I have a soft spot
for: Usha Vance, wife of our Vice President-elect. [From all I’ve
read](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c1kewgzw1j3o) and heard she
seems to be a high-quality human being, and a very good wife indeed.

Usha — I think more properly Ushas — is [the Hindu Goddess of
Dawn](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ushas). Put it another way, she is
the old Indo-European goddess who we know through the Greeks as Eos and
through the Romans as Aurora.

That has poetic resonance for me. Way back in my literary education —
sometime in my late twenties — I fell in love with Tennyson’s
poem *Tithonus*, which is addressed to Eos, the Greek Dawn Goddess. At
one point I knew the whole thing by heart, all 76 lines.

My memory’s no longer what it was; but if you want to get acquainted
with poor Tithonus and one of the loveliest poems in our language,
there’s [a reading of
it](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Readings/tithonus.html) on my
personal website.

*Item*:  Finally, in last week’s podcast I gave a mention to theoretical
physicist and prolific YouTuber [Sabine
Hossenfelder](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-01-10.html#07c).

No sooner had I done so than Sabine posted an exceptionally
thought-provoking talk on the subject of whether the universe can think.

It sounds preposterous, I know. Sabine knows, too: she works through all
the preposterosity. Then she comes out at the other end with some
speculations based on good sound math and physics, speculations about
locality, causality, and other knotty issues in quantum mechanics and
relativity theory, concluding that maybe, just possibly, the
universe *can* think.

If you like that kind of thing, [Sabine’s
presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UqIjhcEb-MU) is worth ten
minutes of your time. It’s *definitely* more timeworthy than ten minutes
of Taylor Swift.

No one knows this, but the Z Man harvests the souls of the wicked. He is
a dark shadow that haunts the modern world, living off despair. When you
take the black pill, he is there to welcome you into the eternal
torment.

**10 — Signoff**.     That’s it, folks, this last weekend of the Joe
Biden Presidency, which has been the worst thing to happen to the U.S.A.
since the death of Vaudeville. My thanks to you as always for your time,
attention, and support. And just another reminder that [Peter Brimelow
is now on
Substack](https://x.com/peterbrimelow/status/1879318792997913075) for
your edification and amusement.

Radio Derb, along with many, many other National Conservative
commentators, has been getting good mileage by snarking at the voters of
California for electing incompetent ideologues to manage the state’s
affairs.

That’s all fair enough. I shall go on snarking at their folly and no
doubt the other commentators will, too.

That said, there is a qualification to be noted. The folk over there
have been wrong, and they’ve paid the price for it. Still, they are
Americans, our fellow citizens, and the price has been a high one, with
much loss and grief. We can reasonably hope that they’ve learned a
lesson; and that their beautiful state, with help from the rest of us,
will recover and take a more sensible path.

California is, after all, special. For those of us who grew up
elsewhere — especially when the elsewhere was a foreign country and the
growing up was fifty or sixty years ago — just the name “California”
gives off deep romantic echoes. Here to play us out is one of those
echoes.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week
