---
title: "The End Of Minoritarianism"
date: "2025-02-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-02-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33535"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33535"
---

One of the side issues with regards to the USAID scandal is the fact
that it was part of a system that has dominated the world since the Cold
War. During the Cold War, this same system came to dominate the West,
both as a whole, but also within the discrete parts of each member
country. In fact, what happened at the end of the Cold War is this
system sought to fill the void left by communism. The system was not
liberalism, but rather a form of *minoritarianism*, minority rule.

Minoritarianism is a term coined by political scientists to describe a
condition in which a minority has control of key decision-making
processes. For example, the U.S. Senate requires a supermajority for
certain things, which gives the minority party the power to veto these
issues. This is the filibuster that the Democrats complain about
whenever they need to placate their voters. In the case of the Senate,
this system is to prevent the majority from abusing the minority.

Since the end of the Cold War, it has been official American policy to
control the politics of the rest of the world. The endless yapping about
“our democracy” is always about imposing Western systems on the rest of
the world. After all, we have reached the end of history and there are
no more debates about the morally correct way to organize a society, so
everyone needs to fall in line. Even though the overwhelming majority of
the world’s people disagree, the minority demands it.

This is where programs like USAID and NED are used. Their job, in many
cases, is simply to sow chaos in targeted countries. Once it is
determined that the majority is unlikely to get onboard with liberal
democracy, Western aid programs go in to stir up trouble in the name of
helping the poor or promoting rights. It is why they love sponsoring
things like women’s rights in Muslim countries. The point is to
undermine the unity of the majority in the country.

The same approach is applied to regime change. In Georgia, for example,
the majority of the people wanted a patriotic government that would
strike a balance between East and West, but that was bad for the people
running American foreign policy, so USAID was dispatched to regime
change the place. What followed was a year of protests and unrest, until
the government kicked out the foreign aid workers. Once the USAID money
dried up, the protests dried up.

The funny thing about the regime change operations is they rarely result
in a stable government, but that is not seen as a bad result. If
Slovakia falls into chaos after toppling the Fico government, that is
fine. That is viewed as a better result than having a pro-Slovak
government. The goal is always to prevent a majority from forming
anywhere, whether it is inside a country or among a group of countries.
The goal of minority rule is to keep the majority in chaos.

This makes a lot of sense from an American perspective. The United
States is a small population compared to the rest of the world. If the
rest of the world, or even a section of it, united against the empire,
it would be big trouble. This is why both Israel and the United States
work to keep the Arabs fighting each other inside their countries as
well as among the countries of the Arab world. As much as Israeli and
American politicians talk about peace in the region, they prefer the
chaos.

We can probably date the birth of minoritarianism as an essential part
of popular rule to the post-Civil War period in America. The ruling
elite of Yankee New England became the ruling elite for the new country
that was formed up after the war. That became even more explicit with
the progressive revolution in the late 19th and early 20th century,
culminating in the New Deal. Suddenly, the people making decisions would
be educated experts from the best schools, all of which exist in the
Northeast.

The story of 20th century domestic politics in the United States is one
of discord and friction over race, region, and religion. Over and over
one group is pitted against another preventing a majority forming up
against the ruling class. Conservatism, for example, evolved so it could
prevent a white majority forming up against the social policies
preferred by the ruling elite. The many progressive causes were promoted
to keep the coalition of fringes under control.

Everywhere there is turmoil there is the crisis of minoritarianism.
Europe is in crisis because the big important countries have no role in
decision making. Instead, you have girl bosses at the EU calling the
shots. Estonia has more say in decision making than France, Italy, and
Germany. Of course, the crisis was precipitated by the Ukraine war,
which is the result of Ukraine being ruled by a non-Ukrainian with the
support of the ultra-nationalist who make up ten percent of the
population.

There is something to say in favor of minoritarianism. Most people are
average to below average in their abilities. Collectively they are not
magically above average. This has always been the fatal flaw in
democracy. In fact, the majority tend to operate below the average of
the whole. You need the smart fraction to run things, but the smart
fraction needs to act in the interest of the majority. Otherwise, you
get chaos, which is what we have seen over the last thirty years.

What we may be seeing now is the end of minoritarianism. The rest of the
world is figuring out how to defend against it. This is why the American
empire is beginning to withdraw from the frontiers. The American
economic elite seems to be seeing the danger, which is why they have
backed Trump and his plans to dismantle the managerial state. Even the
minority, or at least enough of it, is figuring out that they must act
in the interest of the majority.

The curse of the eighth decade is an observation that Israel becomes
unstable in the eighth decade of its existence, in whatever form it
takes. The first Jewish kingdom, led by King David, lasted for 80 years.
The kingdom of the Second Temple lasted roughly eighty years before it
was conquered by Rome. The modern state of Israel was formed in 1948,
which means it is reaching its eighth decade. The current troubles in
the Levant are rooted in the growing instability of Israel.

Perhaps something similar is happening to American minoritarianism. In
his
[book](https://www.amazon.com/Jewish-Century-Yuri-Slezkine/dp/0691127603),
The Jewish Century, argues that the modern age is the Jewish age, by
which he means the post-war world created by America. That is a good
starting point for when minoritarianism became the defining feature of
America. Eight decades of turmoil later and we are reaching the end of
minoritarianism. The curse of the eight decade is now coming for the
organizing principle of the American empire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
