---
title: "The Instauration"
date: "2025-01-20T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-20T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33454"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33454"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about robot doctors, a
post the coming interregnum, a video from the bed of my truck and the
Sunday podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Today is the big day when Donald Trump completes the greatest comeback
in American political history. After his ouster in 2020, few thought he
would be allowed to run, much less win the presidency. Every part of the
managerial regime was focused on stopping him by any means necessary,
but he found a path through it. In that regard, his restoration today is
the greatest political victory in American history. No candidate has
overcome bigger odds than Donald Trump.

That may be why the crazies are so quiet this time. Every narrative
since 2016 has ended with the end of Donald Trump. They simply ruled out
any possibility of Trump winning this election, so now that it has
happened, they have no mechanism for dealing with the disconfirmation.
No one has conjured a new narrative that includes their victory over the
orange man as he enters the White House. There is no Russian collusion
hoax to explain this victory.

It is a good reminder that the crazies are not self-directed. They need
to be fed stories from the system around which they can rally. Remove
the Russian collusion hoax and much of what happened in Trump’s term is
not possible. The “resistance” rested on the belief that his victory in
2016 was illegitimate due to the modern version of Old Scratch tricking
people into supporting his agent, Donald Trump. They were not just mad
about an election result. They were resisting evil itself.

This does not mean the Russian collusion hoax was 4-D chess. It was just
another lie from the Clinton machine, but the stars aligned for it to
become the great rallying point for the mentally ill. It was also a
useful excuse for permanent Washington, as they scrambled to contain the
damage of 2016. It is why to this day no one who bought into the Russian
collusion hoax has explained how Trump’s alleged deal with the Putin
resulted in his winning Pennsylvania.

It is a good example of how events take on a life of their own. While
there are schemers plotting behind the scenes, their schemes often turn
into something far different from what they initially imagined. The
Russian collusion stuff was originally a way to distract from those
embarrassing emails being released online. It then became the magical
reason to explain the failure of the Clinton campaign and then it became
the excuse for official Washington to declare war on the president.

The great gaslighting campaign on behalf of Harris did not include such
a provision, probably because the people behind it did not think it
would work. They knew all along that her odds were not good. Unlike in
2016 when everyone was sure Clinton would win easily, no one thought
Harris was a favorite. The efforts to conjure a new conspiracy to
explain Trump’s victory went nowhere primarily because powerful people
were unwilling to invest in a new Old Scratch story.

There is another bit of evidence to suggest that the reason Trump is in
Washington right now is the economic elites shifted in his favor. In
2016 they were all invested in Clinton as she was the machine candidate
and the machine ran Washington. Rich people took the safe course and
invested in the “resistance.” The great drama the machine put on for the
country was as much about gaslighting the economic elites as it was
about undermining the Trump presidency.

Four years of mismanagement under Biden caused enough concern among the
economic elites that they were not willing to hand Washington a blank
check, especially after the events of the summer. Biden’s incoherence,
Trump getting shot and then the selection of Harris deeply concerned the
economic elites. Like the ownership of a company realizing that their
managers are stealing from them, the economic elites decided it was time
for a change.

One result is no money to underwrite a new resistance. The crazies have
been sent off to the internet version of an internment camp. Facebook
and Twitter are now back to normal, for the most part. Regime media is
under pressure to behave this time, which has led to a purge of some of
their hard thumping crazies. The Washington Post and New York Times will
not be leading the resistance to Trump this time. Their owners will not
tolerate it, so the coverage has been quite tame.

This is another clue that the people in charge are back in charge. The
Trump agenda is far more aggressive this time around, but we are not
hearing much from the regime lackeys about it. Trump is expected to sign
one hundred executive orders today and regime media has barely noticed.
The prevailing mood in Washington now is like what happens when a new
management team is installed. Those who buy in really buy in and those
who do not buy in head for the exit.

None of this suggests it will be all puppies and rainbows, but the signs
all point to a restoration of normalcy as the default. The freakshow
that has been the norm for the last decade is being replaced with a
sober minded standard. You see this in the nomination hearings where the
hysterics have been kept to a minimum. In Trump’s first term, for
example, the crazies shut down Washington over Kavanaugh, but this time
they were quite muted over Hegseth.

One should not forget the lesson of the Russian collusion hoax. This
effort to wrench normalcy from the jaws of lunacy will itself set off a
chain of events that will lead to things no one can anticipate. Careers
have been built on the lunacy, so the decline of Lunacy Inc. will have
fallout. Some of it will be good for those on the dark side of the great
divide but might not be viewed as such by the economic elites. The rich
guys can easily go from heroes to zeroes.

There is also the fact that the rich guys will want what they want from
Trump and that may not be good for the country. We saw this with the
recent H1B flap. The good guys won the rhetorical fight, but it is a
good reminder that rich people are like any other tool in radical
politics. They are useful when they are useful and that is determined by
those who are using them. The price of victory in this system is
relentless pressure on the economic elites, not hero worship.

In the end, today signals quiet waters for the first time in a long
time. The instauration will be followed by another interregnum. The
Great Awakening that kicked off with the 2000 election has finally
burned itself out and we will get a period where the mess gets cleaned
up and normal people can speak freely about it. In the previous
interregnum, after the cultural revolution of the 1960’s, everyone
assumed it was forever and failed to claw back what had been lost.

That is the great question that looms over all of this. In the short
term, will Trump follow through on his promises and address the crimes
of the past? Will we see some corrective action taken against the system
for the abuses? On the other hand, will the beneficiaries of his victory
use their new platforms to continue the long-term fight against the
forces of darkness or will they simply get rich off it? Today is the end
of the beginning and the start of the long interregnum war.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
