---
title: "The End Of Ideology"
date: "2025-02-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-02-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33649"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33649"
---

One of the great insights from Eric Hoffer was that ideologies do not
require a positive agenda, but they must always have something they
oppose. That is the point of his famous line, “Mass movements can rise
and spread without belief in a God, but never without belief in a
devil.” This makes perfect sense when you realize that being in favor of
something means being opposed to its opposite. Often, the first part of
the equation rises from the last part of it.

This may explain why we have been ravaged by movements that are focused
solely on a devil, often one disconnected from reality. The last several
decades in the West have been about creating a new version of Old
Scratch, then finding people to either blame for the existence of Old
Scratch or accuse of being his allies. The public square has been filled
with people who describe their thing with the prefix “anti”, without
bothering to explain the point of their efforts.

The anti-fascists are the best example. They have created a fantasy
world for themselves where they are the last line of defense against an
enemy that exists only in their imaginations. Most are suffering from
some form of mental illness, and many are simply losers with nowhere to
go. Others could be living useful lives, but they are drawn to this
bizarre cause because they need a purpose. They need to believe in
something, but they will settle for opposing something.

The same is true for the antiracists. There has been no meaningful
opposition to black inclusion for generations. In fact, much of the
American culture has been altered to accommodate even the worst elements
of black culture, in an effort to make blacks feel a part of American
society. Despite that, a billion-dollar industry sprang up committed to
stamping out something that does not exist. The cause of civil rights,
having reached its goal, was left with the Devil it could not
relinquish.

What we may have experienced over the last thirty or so years is the
last gasp of the age of ideology. All these ways to hunt down Old
Scratch have their roots in American Progressivism, which was the last
ideology standing after the Cold War. It turns out that the end of
history was a warning to those who had organized their lives around the
egalitarian and universalist beliefs that evolved in the United States.
As a result, we have experienced a frenzy of effort to provide a reason
for it to exist.

It is easy to forget that ideology is an anomaly in human history. Human
societies were initially organized around practical concerns like
safety. Religion and culture were useful adhesives to bind the people
together, but the main purpose of human organization was always rooted
in the practical. There was always a divide between the public and
private, because the former was about maintaining society as a whole
while the latter was about living your life as an individual.

Ideology is the attempt to fuse the public and private so that private
actions are controlled to serve the public good, which itself is aimed
at abstract moral claims, rather than the practical maintenance of
society. Christianity focused on the individual and made the necessary
accommodations with the necessities of secular rule. Folk religions went
the other way, providing the broad framework of the people, but leaving
the individual to sort out his private gods.

In a way, it is fitting that Progressivism is the last ideology. It was
always at its best in opposition to something. It is fitting for a
warrior people. Whether it was individual vices like alcohol, drugs and
sex, or social concerns like inequality, racism and poverty,
Progressivism had a way to wage war on them. In the great ideological
battles of the last century, Progressivism was useful in rallying the
war-minded American to the banner opposing fascism and communism.

With no more ideologies to oppose, Progressivism was left to find new
devils around which to rally the faithful. The trouble was these new
versions of Old Scratch were either imaginary or so decrepit they could
not put up much of a fight. Having exhausted itself fighting these
windmills, everyone is ready to move on to more practical concerns, like
the economy, leaving the dead-enders and lunatics to pleasure each other
in the fever swamps of the internet.

This may be why the early efforts at dismantling the Blob and the
administrative state have been met with a tepid response. That apparatus
was the tool to organize the people around a great cause. In a post
ideological age, where there is no need or desire to rally a diverse and
complicated society around simplistic causes, the managerial state is an
expensive white elephant. It may be that managerialism can only work
within the ideological state.

The end of ideology may also revive religion. Those blue-haired
spinsters screaming themselves purple on the street corner can go back
to terrorizing schoolboys about their penmanship and playing with their
food. Christianity was very good at finding a use for these maladapted
mutants. These people will need a place to go that will provide them
with the purpose they seek. Perhaps we get a revival of the small-bore
proselytizing in favor of tradition and stability that used to be the
norm.

That aside, what we may be experiencing is the end of the long pursuit
of a universal morality promised by the dawn of reason. The result of
the long journey is the understanding that there is no universal
morality and no universal truth, other than the truth of the human
condition. The purpose of human organization is not to transcend the
human condition, but to improve our material existence, so that we can
enjoy the time each of us is allotted to the fullest we desire.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
