---
title: "The Priestly Class"
date: "2025-03-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33818"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33818"
---

One of the features of the first Trump administration was the endless
litigation that was intended to throw sand in the gears of the White
House. Much of it was irrational and did not hold up under appeal, but
that was not the point. The goal was to kill the administration with a
thousand cuts. We are seeing a replay of this in round two, but the
administration seems prepared for it. There is both a legal strategy and
a public relations strategy for dealing with the lawfare.

This lawfare is possible due to one of the many carryovers from the
post-Cold War period in which the Washington class was allowed to run
wild. The inferior courts where this lawfare is being waged are packed
with friends of Washington. Half of the judges were nominated by
Republicans and the other half by Democrats, but all were on the list
because they are friends of the Blob. Time and again we see that the
judges issuing restraining orders on the admin have family in the Blob.

One result of this is the ground floor of the federal judiciary is now
the first line of defense for the Blob. Anyone challenging the
regulatory state knows they first must make it through this minefield.
It is one way to make the cost of challenging the regulatory state
prohibitive. Almost all litigation against the administrative state
would fail at the first step and then go to appeal. For most potential
litigants, dealing with the hyper-politicized district courts was cost
prohibitive.

Mostly, the district courts have become a weird form of patronage. These
judges come from good schools but were not great private practice
attorneys. Most found their way into a federal prosecutorâ€™s office,
where they could make friends with the political class to angle for a
position on the bench. Once on the bench, they could then lever that
into jobs for friends and family in the Blob. District judges are one of
the many gatekeepers for entry into the Blob.

Here is where you see the social aspect of managerialism. These judges
do not have to be told to oppose the Trump admin. They just know it is
their role because everyone they know hates Trump. Judge Boasberg is not
defending what he has always claimed to oppose because he is a
hypocrite. He is simply putting the welfare of his friends and family
ahead of political concerns. He is operating from class consciousness
and the class he is defending is the managerial class.

Of course, the court system has been a mess for a long time. The Supreme
Court that decided Brown simply invented a new moral code to be imposed
on the American people by the judiciary. The court that invented the
right to buy contraceptives and abort your baby was doing the same
thing. When Justice Kennedy wrote the majority opinion stating that the
right to marry is a fundamental right, he did so not as a legal scholar
or defender of the Constitution, but as a secular priest.

The judiciary as a priestly class is always a risk because in a liberal
political order the law is the manifestation of general morality. One
reason we have so many laws in public government versus private
government is the morally right choice for every conceivable action must
be written down so the shamans in the court system have something to
point to when making their declarations. That and it is the only way to
overcome the traditions of the people regarding public morality.

It is how in 1985, US District Court Judge Russell Clark began a terror
campaign against the people of Missouri. He took over the Kansas City,
Missouri School District, forcing the people to pay billions in taxes to
underwrite his madman effort to create paradise on earth. This <a
href="https://claremontreviewofbooks.com/the-two-billion-dollar-judge/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">terror campaign</a> was allowed to go on
for a decade until the Supreme Court finally got around to ending it.
Two billion dollars were spent, and thousands of lives were ruined by a
single lunatic judge.

What the district court system has become is a way for the managerial
class to impose its morality on the rest of us, via the court system.
Since there are over six hundred district judges, there is no escaping
them. Every state government must act in the shadow of what is, in
effect, an ideological enforcer for the Blob. The district courts are
now an ecclesiastical court for the purpose of heading off any signs of
apostacy before they gain public support.

In the short term, the only remedy for the Trump administration is to
fight this weird priesthood in the court and the court of public
opinion. Congress could help by stripping some power from the district
courts, but Republicans are useless, so no one should expect that to
happen. Chief Judge Roberts could step in, but he is clearly blobbed up,
so that is unlikely. His behavior in the Obamacare case made clear he
acted under duress to change his position.

In the long run, the solution is to make the district court position
temporary, so it loses its value in Washington. Doing a turn as a
district judge should be viewed as a resume builder for someone on
partner track at a big firm or maybe as a career builder for a lawyer
who wants to build his own firm. District judges were supposed to handle
mundane administrative tasks to free up the superior court. Making it a
steppingstone position would restore that function.

In the even longer run, normalizing the judiciary means the end of
ideology, because as long as we remain an ideological state, there will
be people who see themselves as priests tasked with enforcing the moral
claims of the ideology. The death of ideology means morality is once
against rooted in the traditions and customs of the people and the law
has a process for that. It is called precedent. Since before Code of
Ur-Nammu, this has been the basis of the law and an orderly society.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
