---
title: "Hebrewism"
date: "2025-06-25T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-25T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Religion
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34415"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34415"
---

One of the many strange things to come out of the short war between
Israel and Iran is the fact that many of our politicians seem to worship
Jewish people. It could also be that they worship Israel or perhaps some
combination of both. They talk about Israel and the Jewish people as if
they are gods sent to earth as a test. Those who commit themselves to
protecting these magical beings are the people of the light, while
everyone else is in the forever darkness.

This is not a new thing. It has always been assumed that Washington
loves Israel because Israel pays cash for its politicians and there is
nothing a politician loves more than cash, except maybe the person
handing him the cash. The Israel lobby has been one of the most fearsome
advocacy groups in America for a long time. Men like Joe Sobran and Pat
Buchanan questioned their influence and were then run out of town for
the crime of mentioning the Israel lobby.

The most recent example of this is Ted Cruz, who went on the Tucker
Carlson show and
<a href="https://x.com/Uncommonsince76/status/1935423592172302786"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">bragged</a> that his sole purpose for
being in the Senate is to serve Israel. “I came into Congress 13 years
ago with the stated intention of being the largest defender of Israel in
the United States.” The cavalier way in which he says these things tells
us that it is the default position for Washington pols. His subsequent
attempts to justify this on religious grounds say there is more to it.

This is where most people shift the focus from old fashion graft to the
political marketplace, which in this case means Christian Zionism. This
is the heresy that claims the establishment of Israel and the return of
the Jewish diaspora to the Holy Land signals the Second Coming. Not
content to let events take their course, believers assume they have a
duty to help this process along. Their fanatical support for pro-Israel
politicians is part of the scheme.

It is a weird cult, for sure, but how many people follow it is unknown.
The numbers cannot be large enough to explain the behavior of
Washington. Another culprit is Dispensationalism, which is a madhouse
collection of crackpot ideas loosely based in the uneducated reading of
Scripture. Despite its fringe status, it has had a strong influence on
Evangelicals, who do make up a sizable voting bloc. These voters have
had a big influence on Republican political theatrics.

Still another cause is dominion theology, which is a low church
Protestant version of Catholic integralism that has existed in Europe
for centuries. This is the political argument that says America should
be governed by Christians and organized around their understanding of
Scripture. Since there is a lot of overlap between these people and the
Christian Zionist, the result is an assertion that it is the Christian
duty of Americans to support Israel.

The trouble with these explanations is that politicians ignore the
voters all the time because most are not subject to a genuine political
marketplace. Only ten percent of elected officials face competitive
races. The rest are in seats held by one party of the other in
perpetuity, so they have no reason to fear the voters. Ted Cruz, for
example, just has to make the transplants in Dallas and Houston happy
and these are not people spending their nights reading Scripture.

While it is risky to oppose the Israel lobby, no politician risks
anything by ignoring the Christian Zionist voters or any voting bloc.
Republicans worry more about the black vote, which goes 90% Democrat,
than their white Christian voters. The reason for that is they worry
about being called racist by their pals in Washington. They could, if
they chose, take the same approach to the Israel lobby, if official
Washington decided they have had enough of the Israel business.

Not even Democrats, who have always made antiwar noises, bothered to
speak up in the last round of warmongering. Many joined their Republican
colleagues in pledging undying support for Israel. They went well beyond
what is typically expected from the Israel lobby to the point where it
looked as if most of our elected officials had joined a cult that
worships Jewish people. Many of them sounded deranged as they screamed
for blood in another pointless war of choice.

That may be the missing piece to this. Washington is deep into the
racket stage of imperial decline, which means everyone inside Washington
looks at the political system in the same way the locals look at the
Walmart in a ghetto riot. There is no higher purpose to the life of the
politician, as he is just a vehicle for pillaging what remains of the
white middle-class and the old America they represent. Israel worship
may fill the void that exist where republican virtue once existed.

It is not a simple, linear explanation for the behavior, which is what
most people prefer, but it does tie these other causes together. The
calls and emails these politicians get from nutty Christian Zionist are
validation for their sincere professions of faith in the great people of
Israel. The max donation handshakes they get from men in little hats
after each speech on behalf of Israel is proof that they are on the side
of angels, rather than paid spokesman for a parasitic economic elite.

No man, not even the most debased and corrupt, views himself as the
villain in the great story of his life. For Washington politicians,
whose lives are defined by the corruption that is Washington, Hebrewism
offers a way to see themselves, even for a little while, as selfless
heroes. Ted Cruz got to feel like the white hat for a day after that
Tucker Carlson sit-down, even though his voters savaged him. He can live
without the love of his voters, as long as he has his little gods in
little hats.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
