---
title: "Another Point Of No Return"
date: "2025-04-15T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-15T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33946"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33946"
---

Thirty years ago, a Ryder rental truck full of explosives detonated in
front of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City. The
blast killed 167 people and injured hundreds more. According to the
official truth, the van was parked at the site by someone named Timothy
McVeigh. While he did not act alone, he was the only person in the truck
when it was parked at the site. A total of four people were arrested and
charged with the deadliest domestic terrorist attack to date.

At the time of the attack, the public naturally assumed there were many
people involved, as such a thing should require a lot of hands. There
was also the assumption that foreigners were involved. By 1995, the
United States had been dropping bombs on Muslims for at least a decade.
It was not unreasonable to think that some of those Muslims decided to
get some payback. According to the FBI, that was not the case at all and
the whole thing was done by four people.

It turns out that this may not be entirely true. At the time, there were
news stories claiming that two people exited the Ryder truck. Security
cameras captured the parking of the thing and the blast. There was even
a manhunt of sorts for the guy they named John Doe \#2, but he was never
found. Later, the FBI said there was never another guy and there was no
video footage suggesting such a thing. The media, as they always do,
took that to mean they should drop it.

It turns out that the FBI was lying. This long <a
href="https://thefederalist.com/2025/04/10/why-is-trumps-doj-hiding-an-fbi-informants-deposition-on-the-ok-bombing/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">piece</a> in The Federalist chronicles
the long saga of trying to get that information from the government. Why
the government would be hiding any information about a domestic crime
that occurred thirty years ago is a question that can only have one
answer. It is not as if there could be top-secret information in such a
case. According to the story, the main reason the FBI is hiding this
data is they were lying all along about John Doe \#2.

At the time, it was not unreasonable for people to accept that the
claims about another suspect were simply a mistake. After all, whenever
a big event happens, there are all sorts of rumors circulating in the
media. Most people at the time accepted that the media was biased and
sloppy, but they trusted the FBI. Thirty years on and no one in their
right mind trusts the FBI or the media. Decades of lies and many
examples of framing innocent people will do that.

Just as important, we now have lots of examples where the FBI used
informants or embedded agents to entrap people by tricking them into
committing crimes or talking about committing crimes. Under Obama, the
FBI helped sell weapons to the Mexican drug cartels, who used those
weapons to kill Americans. Under Biden they tricked a bunch of dupes
into the Whitmer kidnapping caper. Of course, the FBI tried to overturn
the 2016 presidential election.

Considering what we know now, reasonable people are reasonable to wonder
if there was not something similar happening with the Oklahoma bombing.
The initial reports of a second man in the truck, then the denials and
now the maximum effort to conceal evidence of the second man look a lot
like how the government handled the Ray Epps situation after January
6th. Given the pattern, John Doe \#2 was most likely an informant or an
embedded agent.

Another curious thing about this case is that McVeigh was executed
quickly, which does not happen in the United States. His trial started
in April of 1997, and he was executed in June of 2001, the first federal
execution in 38 years. Terry Nichols has been squirreled away in the
prison system. The media makes no effort to reach him. Michael Fortier
agreed to testify against McVeigh and Nichols in exchange for a reduced
sentence and immunity for his wife. They both went into witness
protection.

The behavior of the Feds in this case also looks like their behavior in
the Enrique “Kiki” Camarena case in the 1980’s. He was a DEA agent who
was allegedly kidnapped by the drug cartels, but was most likely
assassinated by the CIA, because he learned about the drug running and
arms shipment to the Contras. It turns out that the American government
was helping the Mexican cartel ship cocaine into the United States in
exchange for help funding the Contras.

Of course, what we are seeing with the Oklahoma City Bombing case fits
the pattern going back generations. The government is still fighting to
hide Kennedy material, despite orders to release it. The Epstein
material should have been released long ago, but it will never be
released, mostly out of spite. Anything damaging to the government was
destroyed long ago. In case after case we see that the government
prefers to conceal rather than disclose, as a matter of policy.

There is that other pattern at work here as well. That is where the FBI
creates crimes so they can then use them to promote their brand to the
American public and extract more cash and privileges from Congress. At
this point, it seems like the only thing the FBI does is lure people
into criminal conspiracies. There are 38,000 people employed by the FBI
and most of them are probably on social media trying to bait people into
going along with a plot that the FBI can then solve.

It is why people are right to assume that the reason the FBI is blocking
the disclosure of information about John Doe \#2 is that like so many of
their capers, this is one that spiraled out of control. McVeigh and
Nichols were willing dupes that the FBI was happy to manipulate, but
they also turned out to be clever and willing to actually go through
with the caper before the feds could put the brakes on it. That is the
generous interpretation of events. It could be worse than that.

Given what has been revealed just in the last ten years, the political
class should be united in their desire to disband the FBI. There is no
appetite for even mild reforms, as we see happening now. Trump put Kash
Patel in charge, not because he will change the agency, but simply to
prevent them from launching another coup against him like they did the
first time. Trump’s “solution” to the FBI problem is to put thumbless
idiots in charge of it.

Just as we saw last week with the financial markets in response to
Trump’s very mild changes in tariff policy, the inability to address the
problem with the secret police is another example of how it may be too
late. The secret police were allowed to turn into this monster that is
now bigger than its supposed master. Instead of the secret police
serving the political class, the political class serves the secret
police. This is another sign that we have blown past the point of no
return.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
