---
title: "The Old Tricksters"
date: "2025-04-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34030"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34030"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about trying to walk
ten thousand steps a day, a post about the NFL draft, and the Sunday
podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the tricks played upon the American people since the middle of
the last century has been to take unreasonable ideas and cloak them in
reasonableness so that reasonable people will embrace them. The main
tool for doing this has been the people we call conservatives. One of
their main tasks is to take the radical ideas of the people they claim
to oppose, make these ideas sound reasonable and then offer up a plan to
implement these ideas in a reasonable way.

A great example of this is civil rights. Conservatives eventually came
to defend and promote the cause on the grounds that it was always a
conservative value, as equality before the law is a first principle of
conservatism. You see, civil rights were about applying the existing law
to all people. Specifically, it was about granting equality before the
law to black people in the South, where those bad whites have been
willfully excluding black people from the constitutional order.

Of course, the civil right agenda was vastly more radical and utopian.
That is made clear in the Brown decision, which declares all
discrimination is assumed to be immoral and unconstitutional by default.
Therefore, anyone seeking to exercise their freedom of association must
first get permission from the court. Further, it says that diversity is
the highest goal, so all public policy must bend towards it. Three
generations of social destruction have been the result of this new moral
order.

We are now seeing the same trick being played with regards to DEI. At
its core, what DEI does is take the open society claims in Brown and
formalize them as a set of rules and measures that apply everywhere. It
is not enough for you, a white person, to not discriminate against
nonwhites. You must commit your life to rooting out those who continue
to discriminate and you must seek to remove anything that can cause
something other than the ideal open society.

This is, of course, complete madness, which is why reasonable people
have concluded that the people behind it are crazy. As these pogroms
were unleashed on the public, the public found ways to revolt, even when
questioning the goals and policies of DEI was said to be worse that
slavery. The general disgust with these programs and the people
promoting them is what made it possible for the President of the United
States to go on the offensive against the federal civil rights regime.

Luckily for the crazies, the conservatives have a solution. Their task
now is to take these repugnant ideas and make them seem reasonable. You
see it in this Heather MacDonald <a
href="https://www.city-journal.org/article/trump-restoring-meritocracy-executive-order-disparate-impact-theory-civil-rights"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">column</a> that seems to support Trump’s
efforts to remove antiwhite policies from the government. She repeats
the familiar critiques of the diversity agenda, which is refreshing,
coming from a conservative. Then she slips in the poison pill that goes
unnoticed under all the reasonableness.

Down near the bottom, she writes, “The White House needs to persuade
Congress to clarify that civil rights mean freedom from discrimination.”
Most reasonable people would not think much of that line, but it is the
most important sentence in the whole piece and the most racial thing you
could read anywhere. It is the core claim of the race communists since
all of this started almost century ago. It is the upending of the core
idea of the liberal society in favor of utopianism.

Rights, as normal people understand them, are things you have as a
feature of you being a human being. No one must do anything for you to
exercise your right to speech or your freedom of religion. Rights are
negative rights because they prohibit others, mostly the government,
from preventing you from exercising your rights. It is the reason the
First Amendment starts with the words, “Congress shall make no law.” You
have your rights unless someone tries to deny them to you.

Now, consider the claim that you have freedom from discrimination. The
only way you can be free of discrimination is if everyone else does
something and that something is associate with you. In other words,
everyone must do something for you to have this right, which is the
opposite of our notion of rights. Of course, the only way this can
happen is by force. People will naturally wish to associate with who
they like for any reason they like, so they must be prevented from doing
this.

What MacDonald is doing is the old conservative trick of affirming the
moral claims of the people they claim to oppose, while pretending to
oppose them. Every time one of the anti-DEI conservatives cries racism
over these programs, they are affirming the central moral claim of the
race communists, which is that any discrimination for any reason is
immoral. Therefore, any means necessary is justified in preventing
people from associating as they see fit.

Civil rights rely on the ethics of the penitentiary. The foundation of a
prison is that the inmates must always seek permission to move inside
the prison. Their freedom of movement and association comes at the
permission of the guards. This is exactly the model the race communists
imagine for society, as it is the only way for create a world where
people are free from discrimination. You can only be free from
discrimination in a world where such a thing is not possible.

None of this should surprise anyone, given the background of the
Manhattan Institute and the man who underwrites it. Paul Singer is an
open borders
[fanatic](https://www.newsmax.com/Politics/paul-singer-immigration-reform/2013/04/29/id/501803/)
who embraces the same open society ethos as George Soros. He also helped
fund the Russian Collusion Hoax through the Washington Free Beacon.
Another feature of conservatives is that they tend to be bankrolled by
the same people who bankroll the people conservatives claim to oppose.

That aside, it is an example of how conservatives are like a
drug-resistant virus that even when they are despised still manage to
cause trouble. The reason for this is there is always a need to make the
unreasonable demands of the radicals seem reasonable enough so that
normal people will go along with them. If DEI sounded unreasonable to
you, no worries, the conservatives have a reasonable alternative that
wreaks the same havoc, but in a gentler sounding way.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
