---
title: "Artificial Tay Tay"
date: "2025-04-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33862"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33862"
---

**Note:** Last night, Paul and I did a whole show on AI and the possible
consequences of humanity being enslaved by robots. You can watch the
replay
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/live/BRw81HqZwAQ?si=SS11BvnCSxOsUQr6"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a> and
<a href="https://rumble.com/v6rk4qp-zman-and-ramz-discuss-ai.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

An unresolved mystery in popular culture is why Taylor Swift has become
a megastar on the level of Elvis and Michael Jackson. There are plenty
of simple explanations like her songs resonate with young females or she
is non-threatening, but those apply to many pop stars, yet none have
reached the heights of Swift. There is an answer, and it lies in the
fundamentals of human psychology, but that answer also suggests that
Swift is the death of the pop star phenomenon.

The place to start is with the most popular answer to why Swift is the
biggest pop star of the 21st century: her lyrics. The most popular
explanation for Swift’s popularity with young females is her songs
resonate with them. Yet when you look at her most popular songs, they
predate her supposedly young female audience. Her biggest hit is from
seventeen years ago. Her next biggest is from eleven years ago. Most of
her big hits are from over a decade ago.

That is the strange thing about Taylor Swift. Everyone assumes that her
core audience is young females, but in reality, it is middle-aged single
white women. Taylor Swift is a middle-aged woman performing hits from
over a decade ago. She is a strange mix of current fads and recent
nostalgia. Look at her audience and it is the young-ish females you see
kicking around the cubicle farms of corporate America, and thirsty males
who think a Taylor Swift concert is an opportunity for them.

As to the lyrics of the songs, there is nothing to suggest they are the
hook that reels in her core audience. They are echolalic babbling. Pop
music at its best is doggerel set to a simple but catchy tune. Most pop
songs, especially female power pop, have a simple chorus that expresses
a simple emotion, while the rest is gibberish. That is what you see with
Taylor Swift songs. Her music also comes with helpful expositions so the
listener can contextualize the simple chorus.

The point here is that there is nothing unique about what Taylor Swift
is doing to explain her massive popularity. Her formula is the same as
every female pop star when it comes to the music itself. Watch a Swift
concert, however, and it is clear that the audience is not there for the
music. They are there to see Swift. Like Elvis seventy years ago, Swift
is popular for being Taylor Swift now. Her popularity rests on being a
social phenomenon to her audience.

She is a social phenomenon because she brings other things to the female
pop star formula that suggest she may be the last human pop star. The
first thing to note is Swift is what young guys call “mid”. Now that she
is pushing forty, she is getting a bit dumpy, but even in her prime she
was a solid seven, the sort of girl old women would describe as pretty,
which meant not homely but not sexy. In fact, her unique quality in the
pop ranks is she lacks anything resembling sex appeal.

There is one caveat here: she has naturally unique eyes. This may be why
she is so wildly popular with near-middle-age white women. White women
put enormous importance on their eyes because it is hugely important to
white people, who have a staggering variety of eye colors compared to
nonwhites. A woman’s eyes are what will catch the attention of a male,
which is why there is so much diversity in the eye color of people from
Europe, especially northern Europe.

Women’s makeup puts the focus on the eyes. In some countries, like
Iceland, women use makeup so you cannot help but focus on their eyes. In
a land full of the most beautiful women on earth, the eyes are what
matter. As women age, they tend to focus more on their hair and makeup,
with the eyes being the focus. It is also why overweight women tend to
wear a lot of makeup. The otherwise average-looking Taylor Swift is an
appealing role model for her audience due to her eyes.

There is also the fact that Swift seems to be a boring person. There is
no drama in her life or sex tapes leaked on the internet. The few
interviews she gives are as compelling as watching paint dry. The
closest she gets to drama is dating a football player who is not the
quarterback or a superstar. For the women who could not land the star
quarterback in high school, this makes Swift weirdly relatable. For her
audience, Taylor Swift is the mirror who says they are the fairest of
them all.

There are other things leading to Swift’s stardom, but the picture that
emerges from these general observations is that it is a formula. Pop
music has always relied on these formulas, but they were based on wisdom
and experience. Now they can be based on massive data sets crunched by
artificial intelligence. The data from who consumes different types of
pop music can be combined with the human sciences, the history of pop
music, and the software to create the music.

Soon, maybe even now, music executives can ask a couple of DOGE kids to
create a pop star maker. They will be given access to the history of pop
music, demographics of the current audience, and the quickly growing
body of information from the human behavior sciences. They will then
produce the attributes of stars in each music genre, their target
audience, and expected revenue numbers. In other words, templates for
every form of popular musical star.

Instead of hiring actors to play the part, like the boy band producers
did in the last century, the music execs will ask their AI engineers to
create them. The technology can already produce the audio, and the video
will be here soon. That means in weeks an artificial Tay Tay can be
beamed to the mobile devices of the target audience and through social
media. Their reaction to the “new act” can be used to subtly tweak the
“artist’s” algorithm based on those responses.

This may sound absurd but watch a Taylor Swift show and what you see are
people holding up their mobile devices. People under the age of forty
experience the world now through their mobile device. Theirs is already
a meta-existence when it comes to experiencing things in the meatspace.
This is accelerating with each wave of people entering adulthood. What
matters to them most is not flesh and blood humans, but the avatars in
the alternative reality of the internet.

Even if it does not reach the point of replacing humans entirely, it is
easy to see why the pop star will not survive much longer. Taylor Swift
is proof of concept. She is highly controllable, does not create drama,
and ticks the necessary boxes that the formula says are required to be a
star. Mass-producing many versions of this with cheaply acquired talent
and software is the logical next step, maybe even allowing fans to
create their own version of their favorite act.

That is the other thing AI will bring to music. Based on prompts and
reactions from the target audience, the act can quickly evolve to their
liking. The same process by which you prompt AI to create an image can
be silently incorporated into the production of the next Taylor Swift.
Not only can AI make the next Taylor Swift, but it will also allow the
listener to create their own Taylor Swift. Artificial intelligence will
allow everyone to have their own artificial reality in which their
Taylor Swift speaks to them.

All of this assumes that some as yet unforeseen consequence to the
rollout of AI does not bring the roof down on all of us. Even what we
can contemplate opens the doors for life-altering consequences.
Technology has destroyed the societal consensus. Just imagine what
happens when we have our own popular reality stars. Even so, what Taylor
Swift tells us is that the pop star as a human phenomenon is dead. She
is the proof of concept that will lead to the Artificial Tay Tay.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
