---
title: "The Blanche DuBois Problem"
date: "2025-03-05T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-05T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33693"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33693"
---

**Show Announcement:** Tonight at 8:00 PM eastern, Paul Ramsey and I
will be discussing communists and the best way to execute them. You can
tune in live on
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/@ramzpaul" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">YouTube</a> and on
<a href="https://rumble.com/c/RAMZPAUL" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Rumble</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Over the last thirty years, many people have noticed that all moral
claims within the public policy sphere can be reduced to a few time
periods. In the realm of foreign policy, it is always about 1938 and the
events around that time. If it is a domestic issue in the United States,
then it is always 1968. Perhaps the slow Progressives will try to make
it about the 1980’s when their hero was president. For Americans, public
policy is trapped in one of three historical frameworks.

On the foreign policy side, it is easy to see how this works. There have
been so many new Hitlers on the stage, no one can keep count. Every
foolish and destructive misadventure by Washington involves a Hitler
figure. They are not just a generic bad guy in the propaganda sense of
it, but they represent the re-emergence of the timeless enemy and the
timeless struggle. Everything about American foreign policy since the
Cold War is about preventing an imaginary past.

This cognitive defect has made its way across the ocean to Europe.
Whenever there is a meeting of the local satraps of the American empire,
they take turns looking worried in front of the cameras, talking about
the possible reemergence of you know who and the danger of resembling
Neville Chamberlain. This moral framework is so powerful that they were
unable to notice the irony of the Ukrainians using German tanks to
attack the Russians in the Kursk region.

In the United States, the other great moral framework is the Civil
Rights movement, into which every local issue is jammed. Every black
politician imagines herself as the you-go-girl version of Martin Luther
King, which means even mundane issues like maintaining the roads is a
civil rights issue. Every man in a dress not being called “ma’am” by the
clerk is Rosa Parks. This framing has gone so far that nonwhites are
routinely called white supremacists.

One of the features of those who have crossed the great divide is that
they see the past as the past, not as an emotional support framework.
Whatever lessons can be learned from the past in order to navigate the
future are studied, but otherwise, the modern dissident accepts that
tomorrow does not lie in yesterday. For those trapped in the 20th
century, it is an endless singing of “Tomorrow Belongs To Me” and
morality tales where they are the hero.

This irrational attachment to the past is ironic, in that the whole
point of the Progressive ideology was to advance human society forward,
with forward defined as an advanced state of moral existence. While
Progressives of the past often focused on material improvement, the
spring has always been eschatological. Better stuff was proof of better
living and better living was always a normative issue. It is why they
continue to see themselves as the Elect.

The thing about ideology is that it tries to replace something that the
Christian West eventually took for granted. Within Christianity there is
an assumed point to living within the bounds of Christian ethics. Live a
Christian life and your reward is eternal life at the feet of God.
Ideology cannot offer this because ideology rejects God as the moral
authority, so there must be some other reason to follow the moral
demands of the ideology, which becomes the project of the ideology.

Marx probably understood this when he described life in a socialist
society as a world of men able “to hunt in the morning, fish in the
afternoon, rear cattle in the evening, criticize after dinner.” He was
criticizing specialization and its dehumanizing qualities, but he was
also describing a world where men were liberated from the human
condition, free to be what they chose. Communism always imagined an end
point that recreated heaven on earth.

At some point, every ideology must at least imply a vision of the future
as a reason to continue to live within and fight for the moral claims of
the ideology. If the point of the ideology is more of the same, then why
bother? Therefore, central to every ideology is a point to the struggle,
a destination that promises to liberate people from whatever vexes the
ideology. Therein lies the reason why the modern Progressive remain
trapped in and obsessed with past struggles.

Progressivism was always a weird hybrid of Protestantism and liberalism,
so it could leave unsaid the promise of Christianity, while refashioning
the ethics of Christianity around claims to universalism, egalitarianism
and eventually the blank slate. At its peak, it was a restatement of
Winthrop’s sermon “A Model of Christian Charity,” but stripped of all
Scriptural references. It resonated with an audience that continued to
be informed by the vestigial Christianity they inherited.

The implied destination of Progressivism no longer works on an audience
lacking even a basic Christian frame of reference. This void has been
filled with a circular version of history in which events of today are
recast as versions of the old glorious struggles of the past, where the
good guys won, and the bad guys were sent fleeing. The Elect in this
arrangement are those who can imagine themselves wearing the white rose
of resistance or riding a bus in the Jim Crow South.

In this regard, Progressivism has become a hive without a queen. The
queen is the promised land, and the hive is the habits of mind that form
the ideology. They are the Christian zealots with no conception of God
and only a vague understanding of what lies after this moment in time.
This void is filled with anger, which is why they have become so vicious
in defense of the absurd. The source of their rage is their spiritual
death, which they cannot comprehend.

This obsession over 1938 and 1968 is not just a way to solve the
pointlessness of Progressivism, but also a way to escape present
reality. Every Progressive, whether of the fast or slow variety, is a
version of Blanche DuBois, saddling the next generations with themselves
and their stories of the past. The rest of us are now struggling to
figure out what to do with them. They are an unwanted and useless
presence to the people of the present, trying to move into the future.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
