---
title: "Radio Derb March 28 2025"
date: "2025-03-28T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-28T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33841"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33841"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   00m46s What would Confucius do?
-   11m36s Place Your Betz (on civil war)
-   21m04s Downgrading, legitimacy, and feral cities
-   38m02s King Charles wants us back
-   39m50s Ashli Babbitt remembered (Trump reminded)
-   41m43s Lithuanian wisdom
-   41m43s Signoff with Dickie Valentine

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/65198826/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! This is your
luxuriantly genial host John Derbyshire with comments on the passing
scene.

My comments this week came out a bit longer than usual, so I shall
preserve housekeeping issues for a future edition and proceed directly
to my first segment.<span id="more-33841"></span>

**02 — What would Confucius do?**     OK, news story of the week: this
fuss over a security breach in the messaging app called Signal, used by
senior people in our nation’s security apparatus.

Signal’s pretty fancy, with encryption at both ends of the phone call.
It’s by no means the last word in secure communications, though. Quote
here from the BBC description of the
app, [quote](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c1kjd091019o):

Data expert [Caro Robson](https://www.carorobson.com/about), who has
worked with the US administration, said it was \[*inner quote*\] “very,
very unusual” \[*end inner quote*\] for high ranking security officials
to communicate on a messaging platform like Signal.

\[*Inner quote*\]: “Usually you would use a very secure government
system that is operated and owned by the government using very high
levels of encryption,” \[*end inner quote*\] she said.

She said this would typically mean devices kept in \[*inner quote*\]
very secure government controlled locations” \[*end inner quote*\].

End quote.

Well, somehow a journalist called Jeffrey Goldberg got *his* phone
number included in the group chat list used by all those senior security
people of ours — a list assembled by Mike Waltz, our President’s
National Security Adviser, or more likely by his staff. That resulted in
Goldberg seeing exchanges about the recent bombing of the Houthis in
Yemen shortly before the attacks actually happened — a pretty serious
security breach.

Goldberg is Editor-in-Chief at *Atlantic* magazine. That’s not a
publication I follow, and I can’t recall ever reading anything Jeffrey
Goldberg ever wrote. The word on the street is that he suffers from
Stage Four Trump Derangement Syndrome, but I’m in no position to confirm
or deny that.

The central mystery here is how Goldberg’s name got on Mike Waltz’s
chat-group list. Did he do it himself, or have it done for him at his
request? Did someone else do it for him without his knowing? Or was it
just a fat-finger blunder by one of Waltz’s people?

I think we can rule out the second possibility there. If some third
party — the Chinese Embassy, perhaps — figured out how to insert names
in the list that shouldn’t be there, they’d have much better things to
do with their knowledge than pass it off to some magazine editor.

The first possibility — that Goldberg did it himself, or paid to have it
done — can’t be ruled out. Journalists will do anything for a story. A
journalist afflicted with Stage Four TDS will do anything, and then
anything else, and *then* sell his wife and children into slavery, to
get a story that wounds our President.

Still, Goldberg certainly doesn’t know enough Computer Science to crack
end-to-end encryption, and I’m not sure anyone else does. Nor does his
behavior after the breach became known seem at all triumphal. So if I
were betting on this, I’d take the fat fingers. This was carelessness,
not malice.

And if that data expert I just quoted via the BBC is correct, it was a
particular carelessness inside a larger carelessness. Waltz’s people
shouldn’t be using Signal for their working exchanges.

I guess we’ll find out. [Trump has asked Elon
Musk](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/5215547-white-house-asks-musk-investigate-signal/) and
his DOGE investigators to figure out what happened. That’s a super-smart
group of people. If this little mystery survives the month, I’ll be
surprised.

Meanwhile there’s the politics to be dealt with. The Democrats have of
course been making hay with it. It’s the only good news they’ve had for
months. The responses by Trump’s people on sessions of public
questioning have been less than impressive. “The information in the
Signal chats wasn’t *classified*.” Uh-huh.

There was a serious breach at a high level. Shouldn’t someone pay a
price for that? If DOGE comes up with an individual whose fat fingers
made it happen, I hope that person gets fired with loss of pension.

Meanwhile, at higher levels, there is the matter of executive authority.
Someone at a higher level than the fall guy, with a way higher status,
salary and pension, let it happen — albeit unknowingly (we hope).
Shouldn’t the Gentleman’s Code kick in? Shouldn’t the senior join the
junior in disgrace? If this were Japan, wouldn’t the senior
commit *seppuku*?

There’s a case *against* that — several cases, in fact.

First case against:  The Gentleman’s Code only works when gentlemen
fight gentlemen. There aren’t any gentlemen on the other side. Just the
number of actual *males* [seems to be
dwindling](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GNNlctAoB24&t=10s). For Mike
Waltz or Pete Hegseth to resign over the Signal breach would just be
feeding the jackals.

Second case against:  The last administration did far worse and got away
with it. It wasn’t just the Afghanistan pullout: the Biden family’s
corruption scandals and the all-hands-on-deck effort by federal agencies
and their media allies to cover up those scandals; the bare-faced lying
about our border being secure and inflation under control; the
relentless lawfare against Trump …  this security breach, although
deplorable, is very small potatoes alongside the past four years’
malfeasances, for which no-one resigned.

Third case against:  It’s very plain, and has often been noted, that
Donald Trump learned a lesson from his first term: *not* to fill key
positions in his administration with critters lifted out, still slimy,
from the Washington, D.C. Swamp. This time around he’s been more
meritocratic, just hiring in the best he could find from anywhere. Mike
Waltz and Pete Hegseth may not know which knife and fork to use first at
a state banquet, but they are better public servants —
better *patriots* — than Antony Blinken or Merrick Garland.

Anything that might turn the President’s hiring preferences back towards
people who are more canny in the ways of high government but less loyal,
if not actually *dis*-loyal, heads us back towards Trump 45.

So there you have three reasons for there not being a resignation. The
only reason I can think of *for* a resignation is to keep the
Gentleman’s Code alive: to push forward a decade or two the dark day
when our two big political parties are just wild beasts fighting over
the corpse of our Constitution.

Perhaps it’s far-fetched of me, but I can’t help thinking of the tension
in old China between Confucianism and Legalism. Confucianism, which came
up in the fifth century B.C., taught about the maintenance of social
order by the cultivation of correct behavior. A couple of hundred years
later there
came [Legalism](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Religion/daodejing.html#legalism),
a different philosophy, which taught about the maintenance of social
order by state power.

All right: I have grossly over-simplified there. There *is* a binary
pattern to political philosophy, though, and not just in old China. Our
own Gentleman’s Code, to the degree it still survives, would have got a
welcoming smile from Confucius; the unprincipled machinations of the
Biden Presidency would likewise have met with a nod and a grunt of
approval from [Shāng Yāng](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shang_Yang),
the father of Legalism.

**03 — Place Your Betz**.     Here’s a bloke who’s been showing up on
social media the past few weeks: David Betz, Professor of War Studies at
King’s College London. I’ll say more about his background in just a
minute. First I’ll just explain how he’s ended up on Radio Derb.

A few days ago, idly browsing X, I spotted a video posting with the
title “[Civil War is Coming: Britain & America’s Violent
Future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eOR8NhL09JQ&t=1374s).” How could
I resist *that*? I started watching the video.

It’s from the YouTube account of The New Culture Forum, a British outfit
founded by British journalist, TV producer, and politician [Peter
Whittle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Whittle_(politician)#Politics).
Whittle was a figure in the U.K. Independence Party in the last decade
and campaigned for Brexit.

In this New Culture Forum video that got my attention, Peter Whittle was
interviewing the aforementioned Professor David Betz about those
prospects for civil war in Britain and America.

On civil wars in general, Betz is somewhat of an authority. He explains
himself in a different video (which I’ll get to shortly) as follows,
quote:

I’m a Professor of War in the Modern World in the War Studies Department
at King’s College London. I’ve been employed there for coming on to 25
years now. My area of specialism is contemporary strategy.

My interest in this subject came relatively recently and somewhat
surprisingly. I have a specific background in irregular warfare,
propaganda, strategic communications; and I’ve been very involved in the
discussions surrounding counterinsurgency and specific strategies and
techniques in, let’s call them, the expeditionary wars of the War on
Terror.

So I’ve spent most of my professional life being concerned with
irregular warfare; or fundamentally with the ways in which societies
tear themselves apart and attempt, in various ways, to put themselves
back together … Nearly all of that, and in which course, I’ve written
extensively all kinds of academic work.

End quote.

This New Culture Forum video interview with Peter Whittle lasts for
42m16s. Now, I’m not a great watcher of videos, nor even a great
listener of spoken audio. I’m a bookish person. I like to *read* the
material. That’s why I send out Radio Derb in both audio and transcript
versions, to cater to people like myself who’d rather read than listen.
No offense to anyone, of course. If you’re listening to this, THANK YOU!
I just try to cater to all tastes.

In this particular case it didn’t help that Professor Betz is a slow
speaker with lots of “ums,” “ahs,” and pauses. Again, no offense to the
good Professor, who seems to know his stuff. He’s just not a natural
speaker.

So I bailed out on this video around the halfway mark without finding
out why a credentialed, seasoned academic expert on irregular warfare
thinks that civil war is coming to his country and ours.

Forward to Monday this week, March 24th. I got an email from a friend
alerting me to [a YouTube
post](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gid48FgiHho), this one audio only,
of Professor Betz talking to a different person on the same topic. My
friend urged my attention to this second posting. He noted that Mark
Steyn had already passed comment on it, calling
it, [quote](https://www.steynonline.com/15110/moving-on-to-the-next-phase):
“the most important thing I linked to this week.” End quote.

The host for this one is [Louise
Perry](https://www.louisemperry.co.uk/), a British journalist not
previously known to me, although Mark Steyn says she’s been a guest on
his show. Her YouTube account is called “Maiden Mother Matriarch,” and
describes itself as, quote, “a podcast about sexual politics.”

*What does sexual politics have to do with Civil War?*  I hear you ask.
So you’re not married, are you?

One more quote from Mark Steyn about this interview, quote:

Louise has the voice of a lovely English rose and Professor Betz is a
mild-mannered soft-spoken Canadian, and such accents calmly discussing
the road to “civil war” makes it far more unsettling than if it were
just another blowhard roaring from his cyber-bunker.

End quote.

Anyway, my friend who’d emailed me this link was really enthusiastic
about it; so much so he’d made a transcript in Microsoft Word, which he
attached to his email. So now I could *read* what Professor Betz has to
say! This was just as well: the interview with Louise Perry is more than
twice as long as the one with Peter Whittle:  1h29m05s.

I agree with my friend and Mark Steyn: that hour and a half of
audio *is* worth the attention of any thoughtful person. But what about
a thoughtful person like me, whose attention won’t survive an hour and a
half of audio, without even video to at least keep my eyes open?

So as a public service, and for my own future reference, I took my
friend’s Microsoft Word version of the Louise Perry – David Betz
interview, converted it to HTML, and added it as a single page to my
personal website.

[And there it
is](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/NationalQuestion/ukcivilwar.html).
Listeners, go to johnderbyshire.com, click on “Opinions” in
the *Navigation* box, then on “The National Question.” It’s the first
item listed.

Since then I’ve spotted several other interviews with Professor Betz,
all on that same theme. British politician and charity organizer [Nick
Buckley](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_INZM98BAyk&t=706s) has one on
his YouTube account; British nationalist commentator [Richard
Inman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tlcjb5fqNSc) has one on his; a
YouTube account called “Skeptical Waves” has one titled “[Civil War
comes to the West](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1rNW5xjMqFU)“; and
there may be others I’ve missed.

So yes: Civil War is in the air, and Professor Betz is riding the
thermals. What does he actually *say*, though? Next segment.

**04 — Downgrading, legitimacy, and feral cities**.     Before
proceeding, I should let you hear the man himself talking. Here’s a
two-minute clip from the Nick Buckley interview. Not only is Professor
Betz making a key point, but the clip demonstrates what I said about
him *not* being a gifted speaker. For the transcript I’ve stripped out
all the “ums” and “ahs” and pauses, but I’ve left them in the audio.

\[[*Clip*](https://youtu.be/tVWRiHzZ7Bo?t=80):   **Betz:**  Let me
explain what I think is going to happen. It’s sad because I think
fundamentally the most important fissure is between nationalism and
post-nationalism.

Nationalism is in bad odor and has been, in elite circles, since the
world wars, really. But essentially, if one understands it as a love of
one’s place and people, then that idea …  I think that idea is one that
appeals to Britons across a range of ethnicities.

And if you think of it that way the problem is, our elite — our
political, media, certainly our corporate elite — they’re
all *post*-nationalist in their orientation. They don’t think in terms
of national interest. In fact they’re suspicious of people who talk
about national interest. They think there’s something actually
disreputable about that, and rather suspicious —
basically, *morally* suspect — to talk in those terms.

**Buckley:**  And Keir Starmer perfectly highlighted this when someone
asked him on the BBC, “What do you prefer, Davos or Westminster?” and he
went: “*Davos!*”

**Betz:**  Keir Starmer is the epitomization of this, I think. I mean,
he’s hardly alone. He’s an epitomization of an ideal that is, I think,
very broadly evident throughout the British establishment.\]

End quote.

That’s just a snippet. For the full Betz, listen to [the hour-and-a-half
Louise Perry interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gid48FgiHho), or
read [the transcript at
johnderbyshire.com](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/NationalQuestion/ukcivilwar.html).
Be warned, though: it runs to over twelve thousand words. That’s longer
than *St. Mark’s Gospel*.

Just a few points from it.

-   **Downgrading:** At one point Betz uses the word “downgrading.”
    Louise Perry asks him for a definition. He replies, edited quote:

You can’t just say very factionalized societies are very prone to civil
war, because it turns out that the most factionalized societies are to
some extent secure *from* civil war, because there is no single group
which is sufficiently dominant to coordinate revolt on its own. So, if
your country is broken up into ten or fifteen different factions, then
it’s very hard to get a mass movement going because you have to
coordinate multiple factions to do so.

On the other end of the spectrum, you could say a country that is very
homogeneous (i.e., *un*fractionated on an ethnic or cultural level) is
less prone to civil conflict because it’s easier to arrive at consensus
positions, or easier to appeal to pre-political loyalty, as I said.

The danger area is in the middle where you have a previously dominant
faction, or a previously dominant identity, that is losing its place in
society; and that’s precisely where we are now, where there is the
potential for a mass movement. Which is essentially why most of the
governments of the Western world (or the internal security forces of the
Western world) [evince terrible
concern](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/05/14/biden-white-supremacy-howard-university/) with
white identity movements …

So “downgrading” is the technical term in the civil war causation
literature that refers to a situation in which a formerly dominant
social majority fears that it is in peril of losing that dominance; and
that is considered to be a highly important factor in civil war
causation.

End quote.

-   **Elite betrayal:**edited quote:

A secondary impulse, that is very clear in popular discourse now, is to
punish our domestic elite for having failed willfully or simply
negligently for this perceived failure to maintain the social contract.

In character, I think the conflict is probably going to echo the peasant
revolts of the distant past more so than the progressive leftist
revolutions of the previous century and a half. It’s essentially a
conservative reaction against the perceived elite alteration or [elite
betrayal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TYwCJOg7mWU&t=6s) (again a
term that one hears a lot now) of the previously understood social rules
of the game.

End quote.

-   **Dirty war:** Betz warns us that we — Americans especially — have
    an image of Civil War based on the 1861-1865 unpleasantness, quote:
    “uniformed armies fighting each other essentially conventionally on
    a large scale using regular operations that could be represented on
    a map,” end quote.

What he’s predicting is much more like what academics in his field call
“dirty war”: the kind of thing we’ve seen in Latin American countries
with death squads, assassination, kidnappings, and so on, countered by
brutally repressive government responses. Quote:

If you imagine a spectrum of civil war, and you imagine the American
Civil War on one end of the scale (which is effectively a big
conventional conflict within a society, which prior to the outbreak of
the conflict was under one sovereign authority), then dirty war is on
the other end of the spectrum. It doesn’t have, you know, big
conventional military operations, but there is endemic political
violence of a relatively organized and systematic nature.

End quote.

-   **Urban-rural conflict:** Betz talks a lot about this. The big
    cities, after all, are where our treacherous elites are
    concentrated. He points out that in Britain — and I think it’s true
    in the U.S.A., too — the infrastructure that supports city life is
    often located in rural or suburban areas. Edited quote:

I don’t want to go into details because I don’t want it to turn into a
tactical manual — but you can think of the gas.

Just simply put, a really obvious one is the gas network. Gas is
explosive. It is its own bomb. Its location? It’s a national grid. The
Major Accident Hazard Pipelines (that is their name, Major Accident
Hazard Pipelines …) are very easy to access. They’re very big, their
locations are publicly known. They have to be because of the danger of
accidental explosion if you dig around them.

The *electrical* grid is very vulnerable. It doesn’t take very much to
take down an electrical pylon.

End quote.

He talks about social instability in our cities themselves, introducing
us — well, introducing *me* — to the technical term used by scholars of
his subject: “feral cities.”

-   **Legitimacy:** Professor Betz leans hard on the concept
    of *legitimacy*. Longish edited quote:

Legitimacy is a is a tremendously important idea, but one that’s highly
under-theorized …  People like me who have been looking at insurgency
and counterinsurgency —we talk about legitimacy all the time, but
definitions of it are quite complicated, because it’s not just legality.
The problem is it overlaps with legality but it’s not exactly the same
thing.

I tend to think of legitimacy as a kind of kind of magic that makes a
government work. It is the key variable that determines whether your
cost of government is high or low.

If you have high legitimacy then your cost of government is very low.
People tend to do the correct thing voluntarily and your symbols of
power are in fact powerful: so, coats of arms, flags, policemen’s
badges. These things have a kind of material power in a high legitimacy
system because that magic is working.

When legitimacy collapses, then your government costs are very high. You
have to police everything. You have to watch people because they won’t
do the right thing; and indeed, if people are really pissed off, as soon
as they’re unobserved they’ll do the wrong thing. They’ll do things to
further kludge up the system because they’re angry.

In the current context, I think that governments around the world have
been persuaded by certain factors, and by certain people, (notably the
tech sector) to believe that they can make up for the problems of cost
of governance in a low legitimacy environment through technology — that
surveillance is going to bring down the well-known increased costs of
governing in a low legitimacy environment.

The problem there is …  that the whole of the kind of electronic
surveillance architecture has as its Achilles heel that *you can break
it*. You can cut the cameras down; or —to my point, I think —once things
get really serious, you switch off the electricity.

End quote.

Professor Betz’s final conclusions are pessimistic. Louise Perry asks
him what the British government can do to head off a civil-war-scale
crisis. Betz replies, quote: “Well, in short, I don’t think there’s
anything they can do.” End quote. He then qualifies that with some
suggestions about preserving cultural artefacts, safeguarding nukes, and
being alert to hostile nations taking advantage.

Perry asks him for a time frame. The good Professor replies, quote:

If we can make it through the next five years without it happening, that
would be a good sign. I think the rupture is going to come before then,
on current trajectory.

End quote.

It’s interesting to hear (or in my case, mostly read) a salaried and
respected academic talking calmly about these matters in plain language.
I spend a fair amount of time reading — and yes, occasionally listening
to or watching — what Mark Steyn referred to back there as “blowhards
roaring from their cyber-bunkers.” I guess, on an academic scale, Mark
and I myself could be filed under that heading. So it’s good to hear a
sober, learnéd voice on our pet topics.

Academics can be wrong, of course. There are no guarantees in the
prediction business. That said, Professor Betz’s guess of five years for
Britain to go over the cliff seems to me to be all too possible.

For the U.S.A. I’d guess the danger is more remote. If our new
administration does enough things right, the danger might disappear
altogether. That’s a big “if”; but while we breathe, we hope — [*dum
spiro,
spero*](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/dum%20spiro%2C%20spero).

**05 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

I gave over a lot of air time there to Professor Betz — not more than he
deserves, I hope — so the brief items are even briefer than usual.

*Imprimis*:  Readers of the transcript probably noticed a hyperlink back
there to the British Royal Family, [key members of
which](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0CRBz1NkFlk&t=29s) seem to be
hovering on the edge of conversion to Islam.

Meanwhile, last Thursday [the *Daily
Mail* reported](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/royals/article-14519017/Secret-offer-King-Charles-Donald-Trump-RICHARD-EDEN.html) that
His Britannic Majesty King Charles the Third would make a “secret” offer
to President Trump for the United States to become the next “associate
member” of the British Commonwealth. Having heard about this, our
President [responded on Truth
Social](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-suggests-us-could-join-british-commonwealth-offered-king-charles) that
he liked the idea.

(If you’re not clear what the British Commonwealth *is* and what
membership in it involves, I refer you to [my
summary](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-03-14.html#03) in
the March 14th edition of Radio Derb. Probably the President was
listening to me.)

If he’s listening to me now, I would strongly urge the President
to *not* take this matter any further. Britain is sinking fast. Any kind
of formal diplomatic association carries a risk she might drag us down
with her, or at least litter our shores with the wreckage of what was
once a nation.

Our President should acquaint himself with Professor Betz’s forecasts
and drop the whole stupid
idea …  [*inshallah*](https://www.britannica.com/topic/inshallah).

*Item*:  The Biden administration was truly awful, perhaps the worst
ever. That sounds like the squawking of a party hack; but I believe it’s
objectively true, and will be the judgment of History.

There were many victims of its lies, corruption, and injustices. One who
should not be forgotten was Ashli Babbitt. You no doubt recall that this
35-year-old woman, a 12-year Air Force veteran, was shot dead without
warning by Capitol Hill Police Lieutenant Michael Byrd on January 6th
2021 while in a small — and of course unarmed — crowd of demonstrators
outside the House Speaker’s lobby.

Last year Judicial Watch filed a wrongful death lawsuit on behalf of
Babbitt’s estate, seeking $30 million in damages from the federal
government. Lieutenant Byrd meanwhile got a promotion, a raise, and a
medal. He’s still on duty.

On Newsmax this week Greg Kelly, interviewing President Trump, [told the
President](https://x.com/BehizyTweets/status/1904704683232416095) that
his Department of Justice is still trying to block that lawsuit. Trump
admitted he hadn’t known that, and promised to, quote, “take a look at
it.”

Thank you, Sir!

*Item*:  Had you ever heard of Andrius Kubilius before last week? No, me
neither.

Looking him up, I see that the 68-year-old Mr Kubilius is a Lithuanian.
That excuses us: there aren’t that many famous Lithuanians. He is
currently serving in the executive of the European Union as the
Commissioner for Defence Industry and Space.

What’s endeared him to me — and to any other American who, like me,
can’t figure out what the hell we are still doing in NATO thirty-four
years after the Warsaw Pact was disbanded — what’s endeared him to us
were remarks he made March 18th at a gathering of the European
Commission. [Quote](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_25_834):

Four hundred and fifty million EU citizens should not have to depend on
340 million Americans to defend ourselves against 140 million Russians
who can’t defeat 38 million Ukrainians.

We really can do better.

It’s time for us to take responsibility for the defence of Europe!

End quote.

I wish I could tell you truthfully that I stood up and cheered when I
read that. In fact I stayed rooted to my seat, stunned to immobility by
seeing a high official of the European Commission talking sense. God
bless you, Mr. Kubilius!

**06 — Signoff**.     And that’s all I have for you, ladies and
gentlemen — the latter group, I hope, ever loyal to the Gentleman’s
Code.

Thank you for your time and attention, and please allow me to remind you
yet again that you can support the VDARE Foundation by subscribing
to [Peter Brimelow’s Substack account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/),
or with a check to the Foundation itself at P.O. Box 211,
Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759; and you can support me personally by
earmarking that check with my name, or by any of the other options
spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). You can also
support me *indirectly* by subscribing
to [*Chronicles* magazine](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/chroniclesmagazine.org/),
who publish my work. Thank you!

I have a confession to make prefatory to the sign-out music clip. I have
occasional spells of nostalgia for my English childhood. Sometimes in
those spells I recall the popular lounge singers of
mid-twentieth-century England.

Looking back, I think there was a widespread feeling of national
inferiority among the English: America’s lounge singers were so
much *better* than ours. The Yanks had [Frank
Sinatra](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B1FZpyUfM5g) and [Doris
Day](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Day%20https:/www.youtube.com/watch?v=aiueIiFJdN8),
we had [Frankie
Vaughan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eCRvtAdVk6w) and [Alma
Cogan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pHtLPjKnrYs). I imagine English
adults were grumbling among themselves something like: “Darn it, it was
bad enough being their junior partner in the war; can’t we at least
out-*sing* them?”

And then, reminiscing, I go to YouTube and pull down one or two of those
English crooners I was hearing from the family radio seventy years ago.
No, they weren’t as good as their American equivalents, but they mostly
weren’t *bad*. Painted over with a good coat of nostalgia, they were
quite listenable.

So here’s one: Dickie Valentine. I’d like to think that as Elon Musk’s
guys advance their investigation, whichever dumbo in our
national-security bureaucracy put Jeffrey Goldberg on that Signal list
is listening, and … sweating.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.

 

 
