---
title: "Radio Derb April 18 2025"
date: "2025-04-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33968"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33968"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m14s Senator envy
-   05m03s Marco favors free speech
-   14m40s Lard, petard
-   21m10s CultMarx on display
-   31m37s How to deport millions
-   33m33s Hungary blocks Prouds
-   35m33s Remembering Benny Hill
-   38m50s Signoff with Eddie Cochran

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/65629784/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! That was a fragment of
Joseph Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 1*, just to give you a break
from *No. 2*, and this is your enviously genial host John Derbyshire
with news and views from the past week.

Let me begin by explaining that last adverb. I’m not by temperament an
envious person. The Tenth Commandment is an easy one for me. I rarely
find myself yearning for something that someone else possesses but I
myself want to have. I’m too fatalistic.

In one respect, though, I do envy the people of Missouri. Let me start
by explaining that.<span id="more-33968"></span>

**02 — Senator envy**.     I live, as I’m sure I have mentioned before,
on Long Island, in the outer-outer suburbs of New York City. My wife and
I have lived here, in the same house, for 33 years, very happily. The
house suits us, the neighborhood suits us, the town suits us, Long
Island suits us. We have complaints I sometimes vent — the property
taxes, for example, are outrageous; and getting *off* Long Island by
road needs forward planning on the scale of D-Day — but we have no
desire to move.

However, the house, the neighborhood, the town, and the Island are all
in New York State, a stronghold of the Democratic Party. Kamala Harris
won the state’s vote in November, 56½ percent to 43½.

I should say there’s a bit more more to the psephological story than
that. [The map of votes by
county](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/NYvote2024.jpg) in
New York State is mostly red. It’s the metropolitan counties — Albany,
Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, New York City of course, … that got Harris
the victory.

And the imbalance in space is mirrored in time. [New York
State](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_presidential_elections_in_New_York#1864_to_present) has
voted Democrat in every one of the last ten presidential elections.
Prior to that, though, we voted for Reagan in ’80 and ’84, for Nixon in
’72, for Ike in ’52 and ’56, Dewey in ’48, and — bless their sweet
souls — for Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover in [the Arcadian
1920s](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/ModernTimesToC.jpg).

So OK, New York is not the bluest of blue states. It’s in the running
for that title, though, and our two U.S. Senators are out there leading
the pack. Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand are both too intelligent
to be crazy-woke, like Cory Booker or AOC, and they’re not sufficiently
skilled in the dramatic arts to fake it, but they don’t deviate far from
the Democrats’ party line. Both favor open borders, for example,
although with some small variations of emphasis.

Over now to the fine state of Missouri. *Their* two U.S. Senators are:
senior, Josh Hawley, and junior, Eric Schmitt.

I can’t claim to be a closely attentive follower of either gent, but
when I’ve seen them in passing, expressing an opinion on Fox News or
social media, they have always been saying something sensible that I
could nod along in agreement with. Hence my envy of Missourians. It’s
Senator envy.

What is all that leading up to? To a segment on freedom of speech,
that’s what.

**03 — Marco favors free speech**.     Freedom of speech, yeah.
Guaranteed to us by the First Amendment, right? Well … not precisely.
“Congress shall make no law … abridging the freedom of speech” is what
the Amendment actually says; but it’s amazing what the ruling class can
do without there being a law that *says* they can do it.

I knew that in a general way, of course. As a former contributor to
VDARE.com, I know it in a very personal way — more on that later. I got
a whole new perspective on it yesterday thanks to Eric Schmitt, who I
mentioned a minute ago. Yes, *that* Eric Schmitt, the junior U.S.
Senator from Missouri.

Browsing X over my afternoon cup of tea I came across a longish thread
the good Senator had posted, leading off as
follows, [tweet](https://x.com/Eric_Schmitt/status/1912604245435572330):

It’s hard to overstate how big this is.

For years, the State Department ran a global censorship operation — not
just in America, but across the West.

Now, it’s pushing free speech instead.

End tweet.

Senator Schmitt is actually posting to publicize an article published
Wednesday in *The Federalist*, written by our Secretary of State Marco
Rubio. Title of the article: “To Protect Free Speech, The
Censorship-Industrial Complex Must Be Dismantled.” Opening two
paragraphs, [longish
quote](https://thefederalist.com/2025/04/16/rubio-to-protect-free-speech-the-censorship-industrial-complex-must-be-dismantled/):

During his historic comeback campaign in 2024, President Trump vowed to
close the book on a dark chapter in America’s constitutional history:
the weaponization of America’s own government to silence, censor, and
suppress the free speech of ordinary Americans. The American people
responded to this promise by giving President Trump a landslide victory
last November.

Everything this administration has done since then has been
laser-focused on fulfilling the promises made during that campaign.
Today, it is my pleasure to announce the State Department is taking a
crucial step toward keeping the president’s promise to liberate American
speech by abolishing forever the body formerly known as the Global
Engagement Center (GEC).

End quote.

I had never heard of this GEC, this Global Engagement Center. It was an
agency within the State Department that had begun life in 2011 under a
different name to monitor and counter propaganda from terrorist outfits
like Al Qaeda. It quickly expanded its scope, though, as government
agencies will, to cover, quote, “foreign state and non-state propaganda
and disinformation efforts,” end quote.

“Disinformation” became the keyword, defined by the GEC to mean anything
unpleasing to the ruling class, including of course anything pro-Trump.
One more quote from Marco Rubio, this a short one. Quote:

With its multimillion-dollar budget, paid for by American taxpayers, GEC
funneled grants to organizations around the world dedicated to pushing
speech restrictions under the guise of fighting “disinformation.”

End quote.

One of those organizations was the Global Disinformation Index, a
British entity that published a list of [the Most Dangerous News
Outlets](https://x.com/Eric_Schmitt/status/1912604304218677310). *The
Federalist* was itself on that list, along with *Newsmax*, *The American
Conservative*, *The American Spectator*, and six other outlets, every
one on the political right. The list even includes my breakfast *New
York Post*. This Global Disinformation Index was just one of the
critters being fed with State Department dollars — which is to say, your
tax dollars and mine.

Rubio tells us that the State Department agency running this censorship
and news-manipulation show, the GEC, actually had its funding cut off by
Republicans in Congress at the end of last year, but the Biden State
Department managed to keep it alive under a new name. It has now, Rubio
assures us, been killed stone dead.

One more brief quote from our Secretary of State, quote:

The American people don’t need an obscure agency to “protect” them from
lies by pressuring X to ban users or trying to put *The Federalist* out
of business. This administration will fight false narratives with true
narratives, not with heavy-handed threats decreeing that only one
“truth” be visible online.

End quote.

I thank Secretary Rubio for taking this stand on behalf of free speech;
and I thank Senator Eric Schmitt for bringing that article to our
attention.

On top of that, I thank my lucky stars that I moved to the U.S.A. In the
nation of my birth, on the other side of the Atlantic, freedom of speech
is long dead. Over there, if you post on social media something that
makes some person somewhere feel anxious, a squad of police officers —
four or five at least — will come to your home and interrogate you. They
may, following laws passed by Parliament, arrest and detain you.

Should they consider your words to have been caused anxiety at a serious
level, they may charge you with a crime. [A woman from my home town over
there](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14573255/woman-jailed-migrant-hotel-tweet-denied-access-daughter.html) is
serving a two-and-a-half-year sentence for a tweet she posted
during [the Southport
riots](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c99v90813j5o) last summer.

The jailbird there is 42-year-old Lucy Connolly, an ordinary citizen
with no prior criminal record, who did not herself participate in any
kind of social disorder. Mrs. Connolly has been put in the “most
dangerous” category of inmates and denied temporary leave to see her
12-year-old daughter and sick husband, as is commonly granted to
prisoners in the less terrifying categories.

So much for freedom of speech. Britain is far gone into the darkness.

I thank Senator Schmitt once again for bringing Marco Rubio’s article to
my attention, and I am encouraged to read our Secretary of State taking
such a firm position on free and open discussion. Perhaps he and his
cabinet colleague, Attorney General Pam Bondi, will give some attention
to the silencing of that free and open discussion by means of lawfare.

That’s what we content creators call a segue …

**04 — Lard, petard**.     Yes: you know where this is headed, don’t
you? It’s headed to New York State Attorney General [Letitia
Lardbutt](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/LetitiaLardbutt.jpg),
who by relentless lawfare shut down my previous host, VDARE.com. The
proprietors of VDARE hadn’t committed any crime; Ms, Lardbutt just
didn’t like their opinions, so she lawyered them to death.

So imagine my pleasure when I heard that on Tuesday this week our State
Attorney General has been hit with a criminal referral from the U.S.
Federal Housing Finance Agency in a letter to U.S. Attorney General Pam
Bondi.

“Criminal referral” is when agency or authority A, which has no powers
of prosecution, sends a notice to agency or authority B,
which *does* have those powers, recommending criminal investigation or
prosecution for crimes within B’s prosecutorial powers. “B” in this case
is of course Pam Bondi’s Justice Department, “B” for “Bondi.”.

What crimes might Ms. Lardbutt have committed? The referral says she may
have engaged in financial fraud by making false statements in
real-estate transactions. The three charges I’ve so far seen publicized
are:

1.  To secure a loan for a property in Norfolk, Va. she claimed it would
    be her principal residence to get a more advantageous mortgage rate.
    As sitting Attorney General of New York, however, she is required by
    law to have her primary residence here, in New York.
2.  She misrepresented a five-unit property in New York City as a
    four-unit property. again to get a better loan rate.
3.  She filed papers listing herself and her father as a married couple.
    The lady is not in fact married, to her father or anyone else.

Aren’t the first two of those charges strangely similar to the
real-estate shenanigans our state A-G accused Donald Trump of having
engaged in, leading to a show trial before [a sniggering
prosecutor-friendly New York
judge](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Engoron.jpg),
a trial that ended with a half-billion-dollar judgment against Trump?

Well, they’re the same *kind* of thing, sure. So is this just Trump’s
revenge — hoisting Letitia Lardbutt with her own petard? Possibly. If it
is, I’d find it hard to blame him.

Whatever it is, our A-G isn’t taking it sitting down, for which chairs
all over New York State are breathing sighs of relief. Here she was
responding in public on Wednesday.

\[[*Clip*](https://x.com/Ultrafrog17/status/1912548822401823127):  My
mission is clear. I’m focused. I’m prepared. I’m ready. I’ve been
trained by the best. I went to Howard University, that overturned legal
segregation in this country. I’ve been taught in those classrooms where
Thurgood Marshall once taught. I’m not afraid of no President. Donald
Trump, we’re ready for you, we’re coming for you. We’re standing up for
you. (*Sic*.) We’re fighting on. We’re not going down
(*unintelligible*). Victory, my friends, is clear! It’s now! And I’m not
waiting four years, I’m waiting two, until a Speaker by the name of
Hakeem Jeffries comes to bring us some rest. Come on, ladies, it’s up to
us. We saved this democracy before, we’ll save it now! Let’s go!
(*Cheers*.)\]

It’s not likely Ms. Lardbutt has anything to fear. As Jonathan Turley
pointed out in the *New York
Post*, [quote](https://nypost.com/2025/04/15/opinion/ny-ag-letitia-james-finds-herself-accused-of-the-very-same-real-estate-shenanigans-she-charged-trump-with/):

She is unlikely to be prosecuted by New York prosecutors using the
ridiculous law weaponized against Trump.

She emphasized that Trump did not have to produce a single penny of loss
for a victim to be hit with half a billion dollars in fines.

But that was Trump and this is New York.

There will be no mob or media frenzy demanding charges.

This is indeed New York, in whose state judiciary white, Christian,
heterosexual male judges of a conservative inclination are as common as
peach trees in Antarctica.

You could ask Peter Brimelow about that. Peter spent three years and
more than a million dollars of the VDARE Foundation’s money fighting the
A-G’s *obviously* malicious and unfounded lawfare against VDARE.com,
lawfare waged solely because Ms. Lardbutt didn’t like the opinions
posted there. Peter encountered no help or sympathy, let alone outrage,
from any member of the state appeals judiciary.

Yep: this is New York.

**05 — CultMarx on display**.     I’ve always liked the term “Cultural
Marxism.” I’m sorry it’s gone out of style. Yes, I’m familiar with the
philosophical objections to it — as familiar as a person can be when his
head is [impervious to abstract
philosophizing](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Religion/philosophersstove.html).

I like it because I am frequently in argument with someone who believes
that human society is composed of a class of oppressors and a class of
their victims. Some such notion has always been around, I suppose; but
Classical Marxism gave it a mighty boost.

Twentieth-century Communists tried to use Classical Marxism as a model
for society and politics, with horrific results. Using the term
“Cultural Marxism” in argument neatly — well, neatly enough — links more
modern oppressor-victim ideologies to those [Satanic
horrors](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/China/s21.html) that so
disfigured the twentieth century.

The phrase “Cultural Marxism” can also be chopped down Newspeak-style to
“CultMarx,” from five syllables to two. What’s not to like? You can’t
fight fashion, though. Nowadays people squint if you say “Cultural
Marxism.” If you say “CultMarx” they just look baffled, or roll their
eyes and turn away.

That’s a pity because the ideology currently plaguing us and providing
half our news stories, the ideology we call “Woke,” is all structured
around oppressor-victim models of society. It’s CultMarx. If it ever
attains primacy it will bring us what Classical Marxism brought to
hundreds of millions: slavery, starvation, torture, and death.

The present manifestations of CultMarx in American society particularly
favor three varieties of the oppressor-victim model.

-   In Variety One the victims are incarcerated or confessed criminals,
    the oppressors are normal citizens, non-criminals, especially
    law-enforcement officers.
-   In Variety Two the victim is black people, the oppressors are
    non-blacks, often defined down more narrowly, as narratives require,
    to just white people.
-   In Variety Three the victims are illegal aliens, the oppressors are
    citizens, especially those engaged in enforcement of immigration
    laws.

There’s a considerable intersection, of course — draw your own Venn
diagram — because blacks are much more inclined to criminality than
nonblacks, illegal aliens are criminal by definition, and some fair
proportion of illegal aliens are blacks from the Caribbean or the
poop-hole countries of sub-Saharan Africa. So it’s sometimes difficult
to locate the precise focus of Woke sympathies.

Woven through the news this past few days have been three stories with a
strong CultMarx coloring.

First story: Kilmar Abrego Garcia, an illegal alien gangster from El
Salvador deported back to his home country by the Trump administration
on March 15th on counter-terrorism grounds. April 10th the U.S. Supreme
Court ruled Garcia’s deportation illegal and instructed the
administration to, quote, “facilitate,” end quote, his return to the
U.S.A., presumably so that he can resume his status as an illegal alien.

El Salvador has incarcerated Garcia in their famous maximum-security
CECOT prison. Unfortunately Garcia, while not precisely white, is
definitely not black, so he can’t claim the incarcerated-black-illegal
alien CultMarx trifecta. Politicians from our Democratic Party have none
the less been climbing over each other to get a photo-op with him in his
cell.

Second story, likewise a twofer: 17-year-old Karmelo Anthony. At a
high-school track meet in Texas on April 2nd Anthony, who is black, got
into an argument over seating with white student Austin Metcalf, also
aged 17, but from a different school. When Metcalf tried to shove
Anthony, the latter took a knife from his backpack and stabbed Metcalf
with it, leaving the lad to bleed out in his twin brother’s arms.

Anthony was arrested, charged with first-degree murder, and held with a
million-dollar bond. He told an officer, quote: “I was protecting
myself. He put his hands on me.” End quote.

He didn’t stay incarcerated for long, though. On Monday County Judge
Angela Tucker, a mulatto, [reduced the bond to just a quarter
million](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14614161/karmelo-anthony-judge-angela-tucker-blasted-reducing-bond.html) and
released him to house arrest. Meanwhile sympathizers — people
sympathizing with the killer, that is — had contributed over four
hundred thousand dollars to Anthony’s defense fund.

Anthony’s family are living pretty large: in a pricey house — rent
estimated at $3,500 a month — in a gated community with three late-model
cars in the driveway, one of them just purchased, [according to a
neighbor](https://nypost.com/2025/04/16/us-news/karmelo-anthony-renting-900k-home-in-gated-community-with-family-bought-new-car-after-release-on-bond-in-austin-metcalf-murder-case-report/).
Whether all those donations contributed to this prosperity is not clear
to me. It’s probably not polite to ask. Karmelo Anthony is, after all,
the victim in this case.

And then, Luigi Mangione, 26-year-old prime suspect in the death by
shooting of United Healthcare CEO Brian Thompson in front of the Hilton
Hotel in New York City last December 4th.

This is a double-jeopardy case, with Mangione facing both state and
federal charges. He was indicted on the federal charges yesterday
and [will appear in court in
Manhattan](https://www.fox5ny.com/news/live-luigi-mangione-court-today-updates-uhc-ceo-federal-murder-case) sometime
today, Friday the 18th —I don’t have an exact schedule.

The federal charges are murder by firearm, using a silencer, and two
counts of stalking. Disapproving as I am of double jeopardy
prosecutions, I’ll give grudging thanks that at least Mangione isn’t
charged with depriving Brian Thompson of his Civil Rights. The hottest
current legal argumentation concerns whether the federal death penalty
can be applied, as U.S. Attorney General Pam Bondi wants, as do I.

The CultMarx enthusiasm here is much closer to actual Marxism than in
the other two cases. Mangione is white, a native citizen, a middle-class
IT worker-bee. Brian Thompson was CEO of a healthcare firm — a
capitalist! And in a branch of capitalism that is, as all right-thinking
people know, killing people for profit with fake drugs and procedures.

Hence all the hybristophilia [I commented
on](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-12-27.html#06e) back
in the December 27th podcast, when it was already surging. Now of course
it’s in full flood. Former *New York Times* reporter and *Washington
Post* columnist Taylor Lorenz told us last week that Mangione
is, [quote](https://www.foxnews.com/media/luigi-mangiones-fangirls-not-me-taylor-lorenz-attempts-clarify-comments-about-alleged-murderer):

\[A\] revolutionary, who’s famous, who’s handsome, who’s young, who’s
smart … He’s a person who seems like he’s this morally good man, which
is hard to find.

End quote.

The case for repealing the Nineteenth Amendment gets stronger by the
hour.

**06 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  At the risk I’ll be accused of kissing up to the boss here,
I commend to your attention [the Z-man’s midweek
tweet](https://x.com/TheRealZBlog/status/1912500885256548684) on
immigration enforcement.

At the risk of having my lunch privileges canceled, I should say that
the tweet doesn’t say anything original, just things that immigration
patriots — those at VDARE.com, for example — have been saying for years.
These are things that *need* saying, though, and can’t be said often
enough.

The proper approach to removing the twenty or thirty million illegal
aliens — nobody knows the exact number — from our country is *not* to
arrest them and try them in court one by one. We don’t have that much
jail space, and all those trials and subsequent appeals would take
centuries, possibly millennia.

The right approach is to mandate E-verify for employment, social
benefits, public schools and housing, and to offer rewards for reporting
employers that hire illegals, with savage penalties *for* those
employers. Noncriminals will self-deport, leaving a residue of criminals
that law-enforcement *can* deal with.

Easy, you see? It just needs some simple legislation — for Congress to
step up to its responsibilities … Which means nothing will be done.

*Item*:  Before delivering actual news on the next item, let me explain
to new listeners that I jeer at verbal monstrosities like “LGBTQ.” My
own word for persons who are sexually eccentric is “Prouds.”

They tell us they are proud and attach the word “Pride” to all their
public events. It’s not a rude or insulting word, or negative in any
way, unless you take your Sunday-school teacher’s warnings about the
Seven Deadly Sins much too seriously. So as far as I’m concerned, they
are Prouds. “LGBTQIA…”? Ptui, I spit.

That said, here’s the news item. On Monday the parliament of
Hungary [passed an
amendment](https://apnews.com/article/hungary-pride-ban-amendment-orban-gay-rights-lgbtq-155ec12cbbde7cc6be0f96adb323de77) to
that nation’s constitution that allows the government to ban the Prouds
from staging public events. The vote was 140 to 21.

This is all within the context of Hungary’s high official regard for
childhood development not impeded or distorted by adult displays.
“Daddy, what are those people marching for?”

The adjective “proud” comes through in Hungarian as *büszke*. “Prouds,”
in the sense of “Proud people,” is *a büszke emberek*. Just in case you
ever need to know.

\[[Permalink](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-04-18.html#06b)\]

*Item*:  The word “fame” is all too often yoked with the word
“fleeting.” Here’s a case from across the pond that illustrates why, and
offers some insights into the slow-shifting currents of pop-cultural
fashion.

The name here is Benny Hill. I knew that name very well, although it
hasn’t crossed my mind for years — actually decades, I think.

Hill was a British TV comedian, *floruit* early 1950s to late 1980s. The
Wikipedia page tells us
that, [quote](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benny_Hill):

*The Benny Hill Show*, which debuted in 1955, was among the most-watched
programmes in the UK; his audience was more than 21 million in 1971. The
show was also exported to over 100 countries around the world, a global
appeal which the \[[British Film
Institute](http://www.screenonline.org.uk/people/id/473323/index.html)\]
attributed to \[*inner quote*\] “Hill’s emphasis on visual humour
transcending language barriers” \[*end inner quote*\].

End quote.

Benny is suddenly news again because a British TV channel just recently
aired a program named *The Cancellation of Benny Hill*. The show
pondered how Benny’s style of humor has, quote from a *Daily
Mail* article, [quote](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-14606405/Benny-Hill-cancelled-Gen-Z-comedian.html):
“come to be criticized for containing racist, sexist, risqué and vulgar
content which would be deemed unacceptable by today’s standards.” End
quote.

I record this just because, after all those years of never thinking
about Benny, then reading that *Daily Mail* article last Monday, I
wasted a good part of my afternoon trawling through Benny Hill sketches
on YouTube.

Not all his stuff has lasted well, and it’s easy to see why, as
the *Daily Mail* reports, Gen Z females wince and frown at some of his
sketches. Benny was a great natural comic, though. Where the humor has
lasted, it’s still funny.

If you want to see for yourself, try the Vicar Sketch. I’ve put [a link
in the transcript](https://youtu.be/f8YxgVU4H10?t=150); if you’re only
listening, go to YouTube, key “Tommy Tupper vicar” into the search box,
and start the video around 2m30s in.

**07 — Signoff**.     That’s all, ladies and gents. Thanks as always for
your time and attention, and a very happy Easter to one and all.

Remember please that you can support the VDARE Foundation by subscribing
to [Peter Brimelow’s Substack account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/),
or with a check to the Foundation itself at P.O. Box 211,
Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759; and you can support me personally by
earmarking that check with my name, or by any of the other options
spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). You can also
support me *indirectly* by subscribing
to [*Chronicles*](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/chroniclesmagazine.org/) magazine,
where I contribute a regular column. Thank you!

For signoff music, please permit me a nostalgia trip. [I’ve told you
this story
before](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2016-07-08.html#08),
but the coincidence of dates is tempting me to tell it again, and I’m
not much good at resisting temptation.

First I need to relocate us in time and space. The time: the week of
April 18th, 1960 — 65 years ago. The place: Gosport, a big naval base on
the south shore of England. The precise place: [HMS St
Vincent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMS_St_Vincent_(Gosport_shore_establishment)).
“HMS” stands for “His Majesty’s Ship,” or in 1960 “*Her* Majesty’s
Ship.” HMS St Vincent was not actually a ship, though. It was a shore
base used by the British Navy for training boys in the arts of
seamanship.

[I was a naval
cadet](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/Documents/rncadets.jpg) at
the time. My school had sent its little squad of naval cadets to HMS St
Vincent for a week’s training during the Easter vacation.

The week was strenuous but instructive. I’m sure I learned a lot,
although I can’t remember any of it.

That week didn’t *start* well, though. Our first or second day aboard,
we got the news from the barracks radio that [Eddie
Cochran](https://www.allmusic.com/artist/mn0000793988#biography) had
died in an automobile accident while on a British concert tour. He was
only 21 years old. The news cast a pall, at any rate on those of us lads
already hooked on pop music and *au courant* with all the American
artists.

So here is Eddie to sing us out again. There will be more from Radio
Derb next week.

 
