---
title: "The Bell Ringing At The Top"
date: "2025-04-08T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-08T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33895"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33895"
---

In the fullness of time, we may look at the sale of the NBA franchise,
the Boston Celtics, as the bell that rang at the peak of the
financialized economy. The team sold for a record-breaking $6.1 billion
to a group led by billionaire William Chisholm, the managing partner of
Symphony Technology Group. That firm has nothing to do with music or
technology. It is a private equity firm. The deal still must be approved
by the league and must go through the usual legal process.

The team is one of the crown jewels of the league, so it makes some
sense that it commands the highest value. Since the beginning of the
NBA, the Boston Celtics have been something like the New York
Yankees—winning numerous titles and featuring some of the game’s
greatest players. Wyc Grousbeck, whose family leads the ownership group
that bought the team in 2002 for $360 million, made, on average,
thirteen percent per year on his investment in the franchise.

By comparison, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose about six percent a
year on average, accounting for several crashes along the way. Median
home prices in the United States have increased at about the same rate
over that time. Some areas, like the Washington, D.C. area, have seen
even larger jumps. Given that official inflation numbers are roughly
half that figure, it shows that assets, even common ones like houses and
equities, have experienced a steady increase.

Now, a golden rule of life is that a thing is worth what someone will
pay for it, but value is supposed to be linked to reality. The value of
a business, for example, is tied to the value of its assets, its cash
flow, and future profitability. A buyer expects to recoup his investment
over a specific period, which means the business either has profits or
assets that can be sold for a profit. The Boston Celtics are a business,
so does that mean the business is worth $6 billion?

The answer is no, not in the conventional sense. Most sports franchises
are break-even businesses, with many losing money. They often have
negative cash flow due to player salaries, which means they carry a lot
of debt. The NBA is experiencing a sharp downturn in its popularity,
with television ratings down 60% from the peak. The Celtics do not own
their arena, so they lack that asset to supplement their business. Most
likely, the franchise is a money-loser by conventional standards.

Of course, the new owners do not care about the business side. They are
billionaires who want to be in the billionaire club. It is as much about
status as it is about business, but the business side still matters.
They no doubt look at the massive inflation in franchise values and
think they will have no trouble flipping this property for a nice profit
once they get bored with it. In other words, they assume the asset
inflation we have seen since the 1980s will continue.

This makes sense in the context of the current American economic model,
the one Donald Trump is determined to replace with a new model. The
economy that emerged in the 1980s is based on unlimited, cheap credit
money that gets plowed into assets like equities, startups, and
frivolous things like modern art and sports franchises. William Chisholm
is a billionaire, despite never having invented or built anything,
because he is highly skilled in the legerdemain of modern finance.

Another aspect of the new economy explains why certain assets, like
sports franchises and some tech sectors, have outperformed houses and
stocks. The NBA is financed, in large part, by taxes it levies on every
household. These taxes come in the form of cable and television bills.
If you have a television service, you are paying for all those games you
don’t watch. Channels like ESPN are bundled into the bill, and they are
a significant part of it. That money subsidizes the NBA.

If, tomorrow, everyone could simply pay for what they watch, like
software as a service, sports channels like ESPN would go bankrupt
within a month. Right behind them would be all the sports leagues. The
reason? Sports networks would lose about 80% of their revenue. That
means ESPN could not spend billions on live sports content, and without
that revenue, the leagues would collapse. That $6 billion sale of the
Celtics would look like the worst bet in history.

The reason regular people feel so much economic angst, despite the
appearance of material prosperity, is that we have reached the end of
the line for this model, where costs are socialized but profits are
privatized. The NBA is one example where the quality of the product has
been disconnected from its financial success. In a true market economy,
the owners of the Celtics would struggle to give it away, because the
NBA, as an entertainment product, is in steep decline.

If you look closely, you will see this dynamic everywhere. The offset to
those cheap products at big-box stores is the collapse of American
manufacturing, and the social capital that came with it. The offset to
cheap labor via immigration has been stagnant wages and emergency rooms
that resemble Tijuana bus stops. The offset to a rising stock market is
endless financial insecurity. The hidden costs have accumulated to the
point where they can no longer be ignored.

The reason Trump is trying to usher in a new economic model is that the
old one, the financialized economy, is running out of places to hide the
costs of endless credit creation and the auctioning off of social
capital. It is not just that we cannot borrow more money. It is that we
cannot continue to socialize the costs of creating more credit money.
Just as critically, we can no longer tolerate an oligarchy built on
privatizing the profits of this system.

That is why the sale of the Celtics may be the bell ringing at the peak
of the massive asset bubble that is the American economy. The absurdity
of it should offend even the most zealous believer in the transactional
economy. In a country with serious problems that require elite
investment, watching rich parasites plow billions into a human flea
circus brings revolutionary thoughts to mind. It may be the last
grotesque gesture of an economic model that has run its course.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
