---
title: "Changing Times"
date: "2025-03-31T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-31T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33847"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33847"
---

**Note \#1:** Behind the green door, there is a post about the massive
Disney flop Snow White, a post about basketball, and the Sunday podcast.
Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Scan social media, comments on sites that still allow them, new media
platforms like livestreaming services, and what becomes clear is that
support for Israel in the United States is shifting. The days of
“right-wing” influencers portraying Israel as the frontline of freedom
are long gone. Instead, there is mostly indifference, with a fair amount
of criticism. So-called left-wing influencers are aggressively
antagonistic toward Israel, siding with the Arabs.

The one place where enthusiasm for Israel remains strong is Washington.
The Trump administration is cartoonishly pro-Israel, often coming off as
a parody of the old pro-Israel stance among conservatives. The
Republican Party is similarly over-the-top in its celebration of Israel,
as if it worships Israelis. Senator Tom Cotton rarely speaks about his
home state, preferring instead to focus on Israel. Even Democrats act as
though Israel is their ancestral homeland.

In time, the events of October 7, 2023, may be seen as a turning point
for Israel’s relationship with the United States. Rather than sparking
another round of American-led violence in the region, it may prove to be
the moment that bursts the Israel bubble. Until then, supporting Israel
was the default position among the American public, with only fringe
voices expressing opposition. Since that day, however, the public square
has become a battleground over Israel.

Israel seems to be losing that fight. Young people no longer <a
href="https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2024/04/02/younger-americans-stand-out-in-their-views-of-the-israel-hamas-war/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">support</a> Israel, and it is only among
senior citizens that you see the old enthusiasm. More accurately, the
old enthusiasm exists only with old white people who vote Republican.
Demographics play a big role here, as the younger generations are less
white. Of course, it also means that the actuarial tables are working
hard against the pro-Israel position. In ten years, support for Israel
will probably collapse.

This does not mean, as some suggest, that Americans are becoming
antisemitic or that a dark historical figure is poised for a comeback.
Rather, for an increasing number of Americans, the romanticized view of
Jews has faded. Events from eighty years ago no longer shape their
thinking. Jews do not hold a special place in their imagination, and as
a result, Israel is seen as just another country. More and more,
Americans are evaluating Israel through the lens of American interests.

One reason for this is the heavy-handed tactics employed after October 7
to bully Americans into siding with Israel. In this age of widespread
mendacity, overegging the pudding raises suspicions. The outlandish
claims made by people like Ben Shapiro quickly turned a tragedy into a
conspiracy theory. Instead of sympathy for Israel, a majority began to
suspect shenanigans. When they called it their 9/11, that seemed to
confirm we were being conned yet again into war.

It is fair to say that the year following the attack was an example of
disastrous public relations that alienated many Americans. Exaggerated
claims about Arabs eating babies and scripted social media campaigns
were quickly identified and debunked online. Then came the carpet
bombing of Gaza, which struck many as monstrous. While Israel was
undoubtedly the victim, indiscriminately bombing apartment buildings and
hospitals is still seen as immoral.

The weird thing about the year of ham-fisted public relations is that it
was as if the Israel Lobby forgot the internet existed. It was very much
an old school media campaign, for a time when the media was four
television channels and a local newspaper, not a time when Telegram
channels have up-to-the-minute video from even the most remote places in
the world. It was a media campaign run by old people for old people who
still watch the nightly news.

There is also the fact that, for over a decade, anyone questioning
official narratives has been branded as “Hitler.” On the one hand, this
rhetoric enrages people. On the other hand, it has become a signal that
kooks and crazies are about to create chaos. The Israel Lobby foolishly
aligned itself with the unstable elements of the left, and now, it is
tarnished by association with the same activists who toppled statues and
caused societal unrest.

This complacency is another factor in Israel’s declining support. Since
the 1980s, life has been easy for the Israel Lobby. Their critics were
banished in the 1990s, so they merely had to issue press releases to get
what they wanted. Over time, this made them lazy. Like all lobbying
machines, they became focused on Washington, neglecting grassroots
efforts. Now, their critics control the grassroots and the new media
that inform the next generation.

A larger issue for Israel and its supporters is that the United States
is a big country facing big challenges. Israel is a small country.
Naturally, it cannot remain at the top of America’s priority list.
Furthermore, the Israel Lobby represents only a tiny fraction of the
American public. Minoritarianism is unsustainable—just ask Assad. The
great tectonic plates of human civilization are shifting against the
current Israeli paradigm. The so-called Jewish century is over, and both
Jews and Israel must adapt.

Again, this does not mean that a historical villain is making a comeback
or that Ben Shapiro will soon be selling tickets to concentration camps
to keep the Daily Wire afloat. Americans are not naturally bigoted,
despite demographic changes. It simply means that the dominance of the
Israel Lobby and the victimhood culture that has shaped Jewish identity
for half a century are fading. Like many aspects of the 20th century,
these things will soon be relics of the past.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
