---
title: "Radio Derb February 28 2025"
date: "2025-03-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33670"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33670"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   02m27s CPAC report
-   06m56s Dems in the doldrums
-   13m57s Immigration innovation: the Registry
-   20m40s Immigration innovation: the Gold Card
-   28m15s Trump 47’s first cabinet meeting
-   29m57s Hegseth’s Friday night purge
-   33m13s Ramaswamy for Ohio
-   34m23s James Bond Bezos?
-   37m30s Germany’s unsurprising election
-   39m45s Signoff: The Hippopotamus Song

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/64637943/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Greetings, listeners,
this last day of February, greetings from your normatively genial Radio
Derb host John Derbyshire.

The first thing you want to know is of course whether I can list five
things I got done last week to justify my employment. Of course I can!
Five? How about *eight?* That’s the number of segments in last week’s
podcast, not counting Intro and Signoff. There was a carefully-crafted
segment on each of the following:

1.  Vice President J.D. Vance at the Munich Security Conference.
2.  President Trump giving the elbow to Ukraine.
3.  The condition of South Africa.
4.  A possible asteroid strike.
5.  Scattering federal departments out of D.C.
6.  Securing Fort Knox.
7.  Getting our astronauts home from the International Space Station.
8.  World Hippo Day.

Talk about spanning the globe! Note that list includes *three* segments
on foreign affairs, after my confessing openly that I don’t much care
about them. My scope even includes interplanetary space.

So yes, Elon, I have no difficulty responding to your Saturday email
demand; although since I am not a federal employee my response is
entirely voluntary.

Perhaps I *should* be a federal employee. What’s the healthcare plan
like?<span id="more-33670"></span>

**02 — CPAC report**.     Radio Derb goes on the air Friday evening or
early Saturday, so my report on Saturday events comes six days later at
week end.

That’s a shame as news ages fast. The news from six days ago is
yellowish and curled up at the edges, and it’s starting to smell bad.

So it is with most news items, anyway. There are some exceptions: news
items so piercingly relevant and forcefully presented, they’re still
farm fresh — still fun to listen to — six days later.

I’ll give you an example. Last Saturday was the closing day, the third
full day, of CPAC 2025. In the afterglow of Donald Trump’s election
victory, spirits were of course high, and a lot of good speeches were
made those three days: J.D. Vance, Nigel Farage, Stephen Miller, Steve
Bannon, Doug Burgum, [Giorgia
Pippalina](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2022-09-30.html#09a), …
something for everybody. Probably the *visual* that everyone will
remember was [Elon Musk brandishing a chain
saw](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/elon-musk-wields-chainsaw-conservative-gathering-gift-argentinas-milei-2025-02-21/) that
had been given to him by Argentina’s Trumpish President Javier Milei,
who also made a speech.

President Trump himself made the keynote speech. At [an hour and a
quarter](https://www.rev.com/transcripts/trump-speaks-at-cpac) it was
much too long, and I found my thoughts drifting wistfully to [Calvin
Coolidge](https://www.azquotes.com/quote/1233627); but given what
Trump’s achieved, and the trials — including of
course *literal* trials — that he’s been through, I’m not going to
begrudge the man indulging his natural prolixity.

The farm-fresh fragment I’m going to play for you here is not from
Trump’s speech anyway, it’s from the speech by Tom Homan, Trump’s Border
Czar. Don’t worry, I’m not going to give you the whole speech, just the
first two minutes. Here’s Tom.

\[[*Clip*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FwazuySXp1k):  How ya doing?
(*Cheers*.) Look … let me start out by saying this: If I offend anybody
today, I don’t give a shit. (*Cheers and applause*.) Don’t care. The
media are in the back room. I’m sure I’ll be reading a lot of hit pieces
on me tomorrow. I don’t give a shit what you think about me. (*Cheers
and applause*.) I get asked all the time: there’s a body … There’s a big
part of this country that hates your guts. I don’t care. I don’t care,
because we’ve got a job to do.

Y’know, I wake up every day for the last four years pissed off because
the Dryden \[*sic*\] administration took the most secure border in my
lifetime and un-secured it on purpose. Right?

I worked for six Presidents, starting with Ronald Reagan, and every
President I ever worked for took steps to secure the border. Even
Clinton and Obama took steps to secure the border because they clearly
understood you can’t have national security without border security.
They got it. Joe Biden’s the first President in the history of the
nation that came into office and un-secured the border *on purpose!*

So for four years I wake up every day pissed off. That changed November
fifth. (*Cheers and applause*.) Now I wake up every day excited because
I work for the greatest President of my lifetime: Donald J. Trump!
(*Prolonged cheers and applause*.)\]

Now there’s a plain-speaking guy. All strength to your arm, Sir.

**03 — Dems in the doldrums**.     The triumphalist high spirits at CPAC
made a striking contrast with the gloom and doom that seems to prevail
on the other side of the political divide — which mostly means among
Democrats.

It’s bad, although just *how* bad depends to some degree on your news
source. My Monday *New York Post* told me
that, [quote](https://nypost.com/2025/02/23/us-news/kamala-harris-snipes-at-trump-and-elon-musk-in-naacp-image-awards-speech-shadows-gathering-over-our-democracy/):

Unlike during the first Trump administration, Democrats are finding
themselves demoralized, divided, low on energy as they attempt to
counter the president’s blitz of executive orders, appointments and Oval
Office directives.

End quote.

Last Saturday’s *New York Times*, on the other hand, tried to put some
optimistic spin on
things. [Quote](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/02/22/us/politics/democrats-trump.html):

One month after President Trump was sworn in for a second term,
Democratic despair and denial are giving way to an angry message from
party activists and voters to their leaders.

Do something.

Across the country, anti-Trump protests and fiery town halls are
flickering back to life …

End quote.

If progressive activism is flickering back to life, it’s time for us
normal people to man the fire hoses.

Now, if you read much political commentary you’ll know that the word
“normal” has been a topic of discussion recently. Headline from
UnHerd.com, February 28th: “[How the woke Right stole
normality](https://unherd.com/2025/02/how-the-woke-right-stole-normality/),”
end headline. I picked that at random: there have been many similar.

What is normal depends on where you are standing, and who you are
standing *with*. Until a few weeks ago our Tutsi ruling class all
believed that *their* positions were normal, while the evil MAGA cult
was a sinister Hutu aberration. After November’s election, and a month
of watching MAGA actually at work in the White House to approving poll
numbers, naturally the Tutsis are disoriented.

The more open-minded among them now understand that much of what they
have cherished as normal beliefs — that biological sex is an illusion,
unlimited immigration a blessing, energy from fossil fuels an evil — are
scorned by most Americans. As the current cliché has it: the Tutsis are
in the 20 zone of an 80-20 opinion split.

Some of those open-minded types are adjusting their positions
accordingly, generating epiphemomena like [Jeff Bezos this week
re-orienting](https://www.washingtonpost.com/style/media/2025/02/26/washington-post-bezos-opinions-section/) the
opinion pages of the *Washington Post* MAGA-wise.

However, the *New York Times*‘ optimism is not misplaced. Tutsi
progressivism is indeed showing signs of flickering back to life, or
whatever counts as life up there in the woke stratosphere.

Last Saturday night, for example, Kamala Harris emerged from her mansion
to give a speech at the NAACP annual awards ceremony, she being of
course the awardee. It was indeed highly flammable stuff. Sample quote
from that same *New York
Post* report, [quote](https://nypost.com/2025/02/23/us-news/kamala-harris-snipes-at-trump-and-elon-musk-in-naacp-image-awards-speech-shadows-gathering-over-our-democracy/):

Some see the flames on our horizons, the rising waters in our cities,
the shadows gathering over our democracy and ask, “What do we do now?” …
But we know exactly what to do, because we have done it before. And we
will do it again. We use our power. We organize. We mobilize. We
educate. We advocate.

End quote.

She forgot to add: “We bribe, we intimidate, we destroy with lawfare, …”
but hey, some things are better left unsaid.

So yes, I’m gloating along with other Trumpies at the energy and
authority coming out of the White House this past six weeks. The enemy
will regroup, though. Probably they’ll adjust their public
pronouncements in a more moderate direction. Perhaps fossil
fuels *won’t* destroy the planet if sensibly managed. Perhaps
there *are* only two sexes, tiny minorities of genetic abnormality
aside. The true believers will still believe, but they’ll keep their
beliefs strategically masked.

Here at the end of February, we shall soon be emerging from winter into
spring. I’m looking forward to the Trump Spring, when I am sure we shall
see a great and historic correction to America’s course.

Progressivism will not sleep, though. We need to keep our defenses fully
manned.

**04 — Immigration innovation: the Registry**.     We also need to keep
a wary eye on the Dear Leader. Donald Trump has lived his entire life in
circumstances of great wealth. That doesn’t necessarily destroy a
person; it may endow him with wisdom not otherwise easily attainable, as
I believe it has in Trump’s case. In other respects, though, it may also
tilt him away somewhat from common sense.

This week saw two new immigration initiatives from the administration.
My grading of them is A-minus for the first, C-minus for the second.

The first, [announced Tuesday by the Department of Homeland
Security](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/02/25/us/politics/immigrants-registry-trump.html),
aims to make to make illegal aliens age 14 or older in the United States
register and provide their fingerprints to DHS within thirty days of
entry or potentially face criminal prosecution.

This, we are told, will make it easier for ICE to round up anyone who
entered the country illegally; aliens who can’t prove their immigration
status and who haven’t registered will be subject to immediate arrest.

Just to clarify this: When you see or hear news or commentary that
is *supportive* of ICE rounding up illegal aliens for deportation, the
reporters usually lean hard on the word “criminal.” That’s defensive on
the reporters’ part. “See, we are not going after that pleasant,
friendly guy who mows your lawn. We’re going after muggers, dealers,
rapists, and gang members.”

Fair enough. The truth is, though, that only a small minority of illegal
aliens are muggers, dealers, rapists, et cetera. The great majority are
harmless. The only law they’ve broken is immigration law. I speak here
from the experience of having been [one such
person](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Straggler/005.html).

Here in fact is a wrinkle that I’ve never been able to iron out to my
own satisfaction.

Apologists for the illegals always hasten to tell you that under current
practice, aliens in the country illegally while not violating
any *other* laws are considered to be committing a civil offense, not a
criminal one.

My rudimentary understanding of jurisprudence has never been able to
make sense of that. A civil offense, I have always supposed, is
committed when some one person, or something with a legal personality —
usually a corporation — *wrongs* some other person. The word “wrong”
there, a schoolmaster told me back in the Eisenhower administration,
encompasses four malefactions: nuisance, negligence, defamation, and
trespass.

Which of those four applies in the case of an illegal alien? It’s never
made sense to me, although friends with legal education keep trying
patiently to explain.

That aside, back to the main point here: Under this proposed new plan,
illegal aliens who *don’t* register [could face a $5,000
fine](https://www.wsj.com/politics/policy/trump-immigration-migrant-registry-jail-time-95c405a7) and
up to six months in prison, followed of course by deportation.

I graded this an A because I think people who break our laws should pay
a price. They most certainly should *not* be rewarded.

Then I downgraded slightly to A-minus because, in the first place, this
proposed regime will just lead to more clogging up of the courts.
Illegal aliens who are lawyered up by one of the NGOs that manages that
kind of thing *will* register to strengthen their cases.

And in the second place, a great many illegal aliens, knowing that if
they register they’ll be subject to deportation, just *won’t* register.

If this proposal had been in place when *I* lived here for five years on
an expired visa, *I* would not have registered. Sure; some mis-step or
stroke of bad luck might have alerted ICE to my illegality, got me
arrested and deported. So what? I was a carefree twenty-something young
guy sampling life’s adventures.

I said there have been two new immigration initiatives this week, and
that I’d graded the second one C-minus. What is it? I’ll give it a
segment of its own

**05 — Immigration innovation: the Gold Card**.     This second one,
which [President Trump revealed to reporters on
Tuesday](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/02/25/us/politics/trump-gold-card-immigration.html) while
signing an unrelated executive order in the Oval Office, is for an
upgrade to the current EB-5 visa program, of which I’ll give a brief
description.

The “EB” in “EB-5” stands for “Employment-Based.” The “5” indicates
fifth preference. When Congress created the EB-5 program in 1990 they
tacked it on to [the four traditional preference
categories](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/USCIS.jpg) for
Family-Based Immigration.

So what’s an EB-5 visa? From the
website, [quote](https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/eb-5-immigrant-investor-program):

Under this program, investors (and their spouses and unmarried children
under 21) are eligible to apply for lawful permanent residence (become a
Green Card holder) if they:

• Make the necessary investment in a commercial enterprise in the United
States;

and

• Plan to create or preserve 10 permanent full-time jobs for qualified
U.S. workers.

End quote.

What is the “necessary investment”? Here the EB-5 website descends into
legalese that I’ll leave you to study for yourself. The minimum dollar
amount, as best I can figure, is $800,000 for investment in an area
that’s rural or has high unemployment, with careful definitions for both
terms. So for eight hundred grand, EB-5 will get you a Green Card:
permanent residence in the U.S.A. for yourself and your family.

Trump’s proposal is to scrap the EB-5 and replace it with an upgraded
version that he calls “the Gold Card.” One of *those* will cost,
according to the President, “about five million dollars.” He promised to
unveil more details over the next two weeks.

It’ll be a win-win, claims Trump. Foreign entrepreneurs seeking U.S.
residence will pay the five million, enriching the U.S. Treasury by that
amount, while bringing in skilled workers.

Quote from him: “We’ll be able to sell maybe a million of these cards,
maybe more than that. If you add up the numbers, they’re pretty good.”
End quote. They sure are: a million times five million dollars is
five *trillion* dollars — more than the Treasury collected in revenue in
2023.

So what’s not to like?

For the full negativity I refer you to Ryan James Girdusky, who has
tossed and gored the Trump Gold Card very thoroughly on his
Substack, [*National Populist
Newsletter*](https://natpop.substack.com/). I’ll give you just a few of
his points.

He quotes Trump’s Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick telling us that
applicants for the Gold Card will be, quote from Lutnick, “wonderful
world-class global citizens,” end quote. Quote from Girdusky: “Anyone
who uses the term ‘global citizens’ should not work in any
administration that promises to put ‘America First.'” End quote.

Girdusky then points out that the EB-5 visa and the number of Green
Cards altogether are ruled by Acts of Congress, not executive order.
Innovations will face the difficulties all legislation faces in a
finely-balanced Congress.

Then Girdusky argues that Trump’s arithmetic is too optimistic. Quote
from Girdusky: “Only 2.6 million people worldwide have net assets above
$5 million, and a third of them already live in the United States.” End
quote. I’d like to see a check on those numbers, but that the Gold Card
might solve our fiscal problems, I seriously doubt.

And then there are all the issues of fraud and corruption that already
plague the EB-5 visa program. A high proportion of the world’s seriously
rich people are oligarchs and crooks in places like China, Russia, and
Saudi Arabia. The ink won’t be dry on Gold Card legislation before
they’ve figured out how to game it to their own advantage — with, of
course, some assistance from our own less-scrupulous congresscritters.

Well, read Girdusky’s demolition job for yourself. This is a rich guys’
deal. To re-quote myself: Being rich doesn’t make you bad, and it
certainly doesn’t make you dumb. You’re probably a lot smarter than the
average. It can, though warp your judgement in some areas, and blind you
to unsavory truths that are obvious to the rest of us.

So, the Gold Card? C-minus.

**06 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  Wednesday Trump held his first full cabinet meeting. Elon
Musk, who is not officially a cabinet officer, sat in on the meeting. In
an agreeably modest acknowledgment of his role in the administration,
Musk sported a black T-shirt reading “Tech Support.”

The emphasis of the meeting was on reductions in the federal workforce
and other possible savings. [Trump told
us](https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/5165355-donald-trump-lee-zeldin-epa-cuts/) that
my fellow Long Islander Lee Zeldin, now the Environmental Protection
Agency Administrator, was planning to cut that agency’s workforce by up
to 65 percent. That would take the EPA’s permanent staff down from well
over seventeen thousand to just over six thousand.

I’ll applaud with everyone else if Zeldin can pull that off, while
shedding a quiet tear for his having lost the 2022 New York State
Governor’s race to the appalling Kathy Hochul.

I’m glad to see you in a cabinet position, Lee; but I’d have been
gladder by far to see you in the Governor’s mansion of my state.

*Item*:  My opinion of military generals in general (so to speak) never
really recovered from hearing General George Casey, who was Army chief
of staff at the time, telling us, after the murder of thirteen people by
a crazy Muslim at Fort Hood in 2009,
that, [quote](https://nypost.com/2012/10/29/fort-hood-diversity-rules/):
“As horrific as this tragedy was, if our diversity becomes a casualty, I
think that’s worse.” End quote.

My opinion sure wasn’t improved twelve years later from hearing General
Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, telling
us, [quote](https://www.fox10phoenix.com/news/gen-mark-milley-i-want-to-understand-white-rage),
“I want to understand White rage.” End quote. (And yes, I know: he was
one of *Trump’s* first-term appointments.)

So I experienced no distress at all while reading about our President
and his Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth dismissing six top generals in
what the *Washington Post* called a “[Friday night
purge](https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2025/02/22/trump-pentagon-purge-charles-q-brown/)”
last Friday night.

The purgees included Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General
Charles Q. Brown Jr. Before being appointed Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
by Joe Biden in 2023, General Brown had been Chief of Staff of the Air
Force.

General Brown [is
black](https://www.af.mil/About-Us/Biographies/Display/Article/108485/charles-q-brown-jr/);
suspicions that he was an affirmative-action hire — a sort of military
counterpart of [Ketanji Brown
Jackson](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/kbj/) — were not softened
by his having signed on, while Chief of Staff of the Air Force in 2022,
to [an official Air Force
memorandum](https://www.af.mil/Portals/1/documents/2022SAF/Officer_Source_of_Commission_Applicant_Pool_Goals_memo.pdf) specifying,
quote, “officer applicant pool goals, broken down by race, ethnicity,
and gender,” end quote, and directing his subordinates to, quote,
“develop a diversity and inclusion outreach plan,” end quote.

I haven’t researched the other Friday night purgees, but if they are cut
from the same cloth as Generals Casey, Milley, and Brown, I believe the
American military to be under better control today than it was last
Friday morning.

*Item*:  Monday night Vivek Ramaswamy officially entered his name in
next year’s Ohio gubernatorial race.

The *New York Post* copped an interview with him in which Ramaswamy
leaned hard on his plans to improve Ohio’s schools. He will support
school choice, make public-school teachers’ pay merit-based, and ban
cell-phones from the classrooms.

The first two of those three proposals will fire up the opposition of
the teachers’ unions.

I sincerely wish Ramaswamy all success in his campaign; but I urge him
to bear in mind that the story of [*Jack the
Giant-Slayer*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jack_the_Giant_Slayer) is …
just a story.

*Item*:  In last week’s podcast I included [a passing
reference](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-02-21.html#06b) to
the 1964
movie [*Goldfinger*](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0058150/?ref_=fn_all_ttl_1),
which featured Sean Connery as James Bond …  and of course, I can’t
forbear mentioning, Honor Blackman as Pussy Galore.

*Goldfinger* was the third James Bond movie. From the first one in 1962,
creative control of the James Bond movie franchise was in the hands of
the late Albert Broccoli and then, after his death in 1996, his daughter
Barbara and her half-brother Michael Wilson.

Well, a few days ago we heard that Barbara and Michael have [handed over
control](https://deadline.com/2025/02/james-bond-amazon-mgm-studios-deal-1236296104/) of
the franchise to Amazon MGM Studios, which is owned by — of course —
Amazon.

The price of the handover is not known for sure, but it seems to be in
the region of a billion dollars.

Will Jeff Bezos be the next James Bond? We’ll have to wait and see.

Mention of the early Bond movies stirs personal recollections. In an
earlier segment I mentioned having been “a carefree twenty-something
young guy sampling life’s adventures.” That was in the early 1970s when
Sean Connery’s version of James Bond was firmly planted in everyone’s
mind.

Having a British accent in the New York bar scene was a great advantage.
I’d strike up a conversation with a single young lady at the bar. Two or
three exchanges in, after complimenting me on the accent, she would urge
me to *say it*. “Say it! Go on, say it! ‘My name is Bond, James
Bond.’ *Say it*, please!”

Always glad to oblige, I would say it in my best Bond voice. Game, set,
and match: I could order a taxi back to my place right there. Ah, youth!

*Item*:  No, I’m not going to neglect foreign affairs altogether.
Germany had a much-anticipated election on Sunday. The result, however,
was deeply unsurprising — barely newsworthy.

Just as all the polls had predicted, Friedrich Merz’s center-right
coalition got most votes, 28½ percent, the National Conservative AfD
came second with just under 21 percent, the center-left, left, and
Greens mopped up the remainder.

Since Merz has sworn a solemn oath not to co-operate with AfD, he’ll
work up some kind of parliamentary majority by co-operating with the
center-left or Greens.

The ongoing invasion of Germany by Muslims and Africans was a major
issue in the election, and a minor one after it. The AfD leader accused
Merz of having promised, during the campaign, to close the nation’s
borders, then, after his victory, denying that he *had* so promised.

[The fact-checkers tell
us](https://www.dw.com/en/fact-check-no-friedrich-merz-did-not-promise-to-close-the-border-before-the-election/a-71771248) that
Merz has the better of this. He never promised to *close* the borders,
only to *secure* the borders. So I guess all those Third Worlders are in
no danger of being turned away at Germany’s borders; they’ll just have
to smile and submit to a pat-down before passing through.

It’s all very German.

**07 — Signoff**.     That’s all, ladies and gents. Thank you for your
time and attention, and please allow me my usual reminder that you can
support the VDARE Foundation by subscribing to [Peter Brimelow’s
Substack account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/), or with a check to
the Foundation itself at P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759;
and you can support me personally by earmarking that check with my name,
or by any of the other options spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). You can also
support me *indirectly* by subscribing to that fine monthly
magazine [*Chronicles*](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/chroniclesmagazine.org/),
to which I am now a regular contributor. Thank you!

Last week I gave you a segment on [World Hippo
Day](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-02-21.html#06d),
February 15th. Then I signed off with a music clip unrelated but just as
silly.

Halfway through *this* week it dawned on me that I’d missed a chance.
Hippos … silly song … come on, Derb. So this week I’m making up for it.
Here to sing us out are Flanders and Swann with *the* Hippopotamus Song.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.\\
