---
title: "Radio Derb February 17 2025"
date: "2025-02-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-02-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33587"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33587"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   02m53s Healthcare gets a new boss
-   03m49s Healthcare horror Down Under
-   05m33s Immigration enforcement gets real
-   09m55s Why are politicians so rich?
-   13m05s Healthcare:a history
-   26m43s Signoff with a medical melody

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/64385509/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Greetings, listeners.
This is your feebly genial host John Derbyshire with our weekly survey
of the passing scene.

My choice of adverb there was reluctant but accurate. For the past few
days Mrs Derbyshire and I have been afflicted with a nasobronchial
disorder of the lesser sort, not serious enough to raise our
temperatures or justify a doctor’s visit but leaving us enervated and
operating at half speed.

The podcast will therefore be shorter than usual, for which I apologize.
The commentary on current affairs will be thin gruel. When you’re
feeling unwell it’s hard to concentrate on anything other than how
unwell you’re feeling.

There will also be a healthcare *theme* to the podcast. Not a personal
one: there is nothing more boring than listening to other people talk
about their health issues, unless you’re a doctor and getting paid for
it. I shall therefore not impose on you with accounts of our own
ailments. I shall, though, later on give you a segment on health in
general, in social and historical context.

And yes, of course, we both know there any many worse afflicted than
ourselves, often in solitude. We at least have the consolation of
feeling miserable together. With noses red from sneezing and throats
hoarse from coughing, she is still my Valentine, and I am hers. God
bless you, my Valentine.

OK: First let me do what little I *can* do with the week’s news. For
symmetry, I’ll start with some healthcare-related
items.<span id="more-33587"></span>

**02 — Healthcare gets a new boss**.     Congress has been chewing
through our President’s nominations to senior executive positions.
Notable on the healthcare front here was the final confirmation of RFK,
Jr. as Secretary of Health and Human Services.

I expressed my doubts about Kennedy’s suitability to head HHS [here on
Radio Derb two weeks
ago](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-01-31.html#06).
I still don’t feel altogether easy about the appointment. Is he really
determined on making America healthy again, or just on making his
friends in the Trial Lawyers’ Association rich again? I guess we’ll find
out.

**03 — Healthcare horror Down Under**     Healthcare’s been generating
headlines in Australia.

Those headlines arise from a video clip posted originally on social
media, now [archived on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/Qh3iVz3RiVU). In the clip, two
Muslim nurses at a big hospital in the Sydney suburbs — one male nurse,
one female — tell an Israeli interviewer that they kill Israeli
patients. They tell the interviewer that he himself will be killed,
although not necessarily by them, and will go to Hell.

The male nurse — he actually claimed to be a doctor, but he’s a nurse —
is laughing cheerfully as he says it. The female just seems angry —
homicidally angry where Israelis are concerned.

The two nurses have since been fired, but the fuss over the incident
rages on. The nurses’ union condemned the two, but made sure to add
that [they also condemn
Islamophobia](https://x.com/DrewPavlou/status/1889897717318689223).

Well, thank goodness for *that!* Heaven forbid anyone should find
grounds there for Islamophobia!

**04 — Immigration enforcement gets real**.     And in Washington, D.C.
the Trumpian counter-revolution roars on through Week Four.

Sanctuary cites are now a major issue. Wednesday Trump’s newly sworn-in
Attorney General Pam Bondi held her first press conference at the
Justice Department. She took the opportunity to announce that [the Feds
have filed
lawsuits](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14391325/pam-bondi-justice-department-lawsuit-new-york.html) against
the state of New York, its governor Kathy Hochul and other state
leaders — yes, including state Attorney General Letitia Lardbutt.

It’s high time. Cities and states are not breaking any federal law by
instructing their officials not to co-operate with federal
law-enforcement; but if “not co-operating” tips over into “actively
obstructing,” then there *is* a case at law.

For example: A-G Bondi told the presser that New York’s so-called “Green
Light” Law would be a particular target of the lawsuit. That’s a state
law that grants drivers’ licenses to illegal aliens while blocking
federal immigration agents from accessing the data. The head of the
state’s DMV is specifically named among those being sued.

And these jurisdictions need to be regularly reminded that, while they
are not breaking federal law by withholding co-operation with federal
law-enforcement, the feds are likewise not breaking federal law by
withholding federal funds from unco-operative jurisdictions.

It is, in certain well-defined circumstances, lawful for states and
cities to assert their independence from federal power. For the record,
I think that’s a good thing. Local authority, local power, local
responsibility: all good things, in proper measure. Still, they
shouldn’t expect federal taxpayers to fund their defiance, and federal
taxpayers don’t have to.

Just a footnote to that.

Reading so many stories about immigration enforcement in recent days, I
believe I have noticed something that warms my heart, and even perhaps
my clogged bronchial tubes. I haven’t been up to a rigorous quantitative
analysis, but my strong impression is that the term “asylum seeker” is
falling out of usage as a synonym for “illegal alien.” It’s annoyed me
for a long while every time I’ve seen it; but now I see it less and
less.

If I’m right, that’s a great improvement towards honesty in our public
discourse.

I’d like to see something similar happen with the word “migrant.” It’s
not as flagrantly bogus as “asylum seeker,” but it does carry the idea
of a sort of rootless gypsy character just passing through. As a
replacement I suggest “settler.”

**05 — Why are politicians so rich?**     The Eye of Elon has also fixed
itself on our politicians’ wealth.

An X post on Tuesday got the attention of our DOGE boss. The poster has
a Hungarian name not known to me. His post listed annual salary and
personal net worth for Nancy Pelosi, Mitch McConnell, Chuck Schumer, and
Elizabeth Warren. It shows Warren, for example, with net worth $67
million on a salary of $285 thousand.

Musk
commented, [tweet](https://x.com/elonmusk/status/1889478696047607951):

It’s not like these politicians started companies or were NBA All-Stars,
so where did they get all the money?

Does anyone know?

End tweet.

Well, of course, *they* know, but they’re not going to tell us. I
covered this terrain in Chapter 12 of my 2009 paradigm-shattering
best-seller [*We Are
Doomed*](https://www.amazon.com/Are-Doomed-Reclaiming-Conservative-Pessimism/dp/0307409597/ref=sr_1_1).
American politics is, I told readers, the Royal Road to Riches. Quote
from me:

Cai Shen … is the Chinese God of Wealth. At Lunar New Year,
traditional-minded Chinese people paste large pictures of Cai Shen to
their doors. In these pictures, Cai Shen is dressed in the uniform of an
imperial-era bureaucrat.

So it goes in grand centralized imperial-despotic systems, ruled over by
a cadre of officials who have proved their aptitude for the work by
passing a lot of examinations. Wealth follows power in such systems. The
proper and ordinary route to wealth is through the exercise of power.

End quote,

In qualification I should add that the numbers quoted in that tweet that
got Elon Musk’s attention have been disputed. Elizabeth Warren’s net
worth may in fact be “[significantly
less](https://in.benzinga.com/politics/25/02/43663526/elon-musk-questions-congress-members-wealth-where-did-they-get-all-the-money)”
than $67 million.

Whatever; it’s good to see the subject aired, by someone who might be
able to do something about it.

**06 — Healthcare: a history**.     So far as commentary on current
affairs is concerned, that’s all I can offer you this week, ladies and
gents. When you’re feeling unwell it’s hard to concentrate on anything
other than how unwell you’re feeling.

I did say in my introduction, though, that I’d give you give you a
segment on health in general, in social and historical context. Here is
that segment.

It’s actually a column I wrote for *Taki’s Magazine* ten years ago under
the title “How Are You Feeling?” If you’re a *Takimag* subscriber you
can probably find the original text there; if not, there’s [an archived
version](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/HumanSciences/Medicine.html) at
my own website.

I’m not going to make a habit of reading old columns from my bottom
drawer in lieu of commentary on current events. In fact I don’t think
I’ve ever done it before. Allow me just this once, please. Also allow me
some slight updates from the 2014 version.

Here we go. “How Are You Feeling?” This was me in *Taki’s Magazine*,
November 13th, 2014.

\[*Pips*.\]

Reading the November issue of *Literary Review* (that’s a British
monthly, somewhat like the *New York Review of Books* but less
claustrophobically liberal), the following thing caught my attention.
It’s in Donald Rayfield’s review of Stephen Kotkin’s book [*Stalin, Vol.
1: Paradoxes of Power,
1878-1928*](https://www.amazon.com/Stalin-Volume-Paradoxes-Power-1878-1928/dp/1594203792/ref=tmm_hrd_title_0).
Quote:

“*Medical historians conclude that Stalin was in more or less acute
muscular, neurological, and dental pain all his adult life … Stalin’s
brutality towards the medical profession, hitherto sacred to all Russian
authorities, hints at the frustrations of a man in unremitting pain.*”

End quote.

That brought to mind a remark [I’ve seen
attributed](https://www.rasmusen.org/rasmapedia/index.php?title=Quotations#Churchill_Winston) to
Winston Churchill, quote: “Most of the world’s work is done by people
who are not feeling very well.” End quote. For persons of Stalin’s and
Churchill’s generation — they were born four years apart — I bet that
was true.

Churchill himself had, according to [his
biographer](https://www.amazon.com/Last-Lion-Winston-Churchill-1932-1940/dp/0316545120/ref=tmm_hrd_swatch_0),
quote, “been prey to ills since childhood. Some of his vacations were
taken on doctor’s orders; others were interrupted by bouts of influenza
or infectious fevers.” End quote.

Until the middle of the last century there wasn’t much relief for
illness, even if you were a Russian despot or a British Prime Minister.
The title of Lewis Thomas’s 1983 book about medicine tells it all: [*The
Youngest
Science*](https://www.amazon.com/Youngest-Science-Notes-Medicine-Watcher/dp/067079533X/ref=tmm_hrd_title_0).

Thomas (1913-1993) was a doctor, the son of a doctor and a nurse. The
early chapters of his book are devastatingly frank about the
near-uselessness of doctoring prior to the introduction of antibiotics
in the mid-1930s. Longish quote:

“*Explanation was the real business of medicine. What the ill patient
and his family wanted most was to know the name of the illness, and
then, if possible, what had caused it, and finally, most important of
all, how it was likely to turn out …*

During the third and fourth years of \[medical\] school it gradually
dawned on us that we didn’t know much that was really useful, that we
could do nothing to change the course of the great majority of the
diseases we were so busy analyzing, that medicine, for all its façade as
a learned profession, was in real life a profoundly ignorant
occupation …

Once you were admitted \[to hospital\] … it became a matter of waiting
for the illness to finish itself one way or the other … Medicine made
little or no difference.”

End longish quote.

This was actually an advance on medicine as practiced *before* the 20th
century, when medical procedures like bleeding, cupping, and purging all
too often *did* make a difference, but in the wrong direction. Whether,
as is commonly believed, [the multiple
bleedings](https://www.mountvernon.org/library/digitalhistory/digital-encyclopedia/article/the-death-of-george-washington) administered
to George Washington in his last illness were what killed him, they
surely didn’t help.

Nor did the attentions President James Garfield received from the White
House doctors after he took two bullets in the back from a disappointed
office seeker in 1881. The medics spent weeks probing poor Garfield’s
wounds with their bare hands and unsterilized instruments in hopes of
extracting the bullets, giving the President terrible pain and, of
course, sepsis. It took him more than two months to die. The assassin
was eventually tried, convicted, and hanged, after delivering the
memorable line, quote: “Yes, I shot Garfield; but it was the doctors
that killed him.” End quote.

In the company of medical people who know the history of their craft you
can get a good discussion going about the exact date after which medical
attention was more likely to help than harm you. Opinions generally
settle somewhere between 1910 and 1940.

That’s within living memory. People of the generation before my own had
little to hope for from medicine. The more realistic among them knew
this.

My own father, born 1899, regarded the entire medical profession with
fear and mistrust. A hospital, he believed, was a place where poor
people went to die. A major theme in the background noise of my
childhood was the voice of my mother — a professional nurse — nagging
Dad to go see a doctor about some ailment he was suffering. Quote from
Mum: “*Why won’t you at least go see him? He won’t HURT you.*” End
quote. Dad knew better. Most things mend by themselves. He lived to be
85, dying at last of pneumonia, which was known to people of that
generation as “the old man’s friend.”

It wasn’t all negatives before, quote from Lewis Thomas, “the early
1950s, when medicine was turning into a science,” end quote. There was
nursing; there was surgery; there were a handful of useful drugs.

Nursing — the art of keeping patients clean, comfortable, and cheerful —
must have saved far more lives than doctoring in the long dark ages
before antibiotics. [Florence
Nightingale](https://www.history.com/topics/womens-history/florence-nightingale-1) (a
significant mathematician, by the way) has to be reckoned one of the
great benefactors of humanity.

Surgery before modern anesthesia (which arrived in the 1840s) was a
horror show. [Fanny Burney’s account of her
mastectomy](https://newjacksonianblog.blogspot.com/2010/12/breast-cancer-in-1811-fanny-burneys.html) in
1811, when she was 59, is hard to read. She survived it, though, living
to be 87, and even stayed friends with the surgeon.

The main component of the surgeon’s art was *speed* — getting the job
done before the patient died of shock. Quote from *The Pickwick Papers*:

“‘*You consider Mr. Slasher a good operator?’ said Mr. Pickwick. ‘Best
alive,’ replied Hopkins. ‘Took a boy’s leg out of the socket last week —
boy ate five apples and a gingerbread cake — exactly two minutes after
it was all over, boy said he wouldn’t lie there to be made game of, and
he’d tell his mother if they didn’t begin.’*”

End quote.

Pre-modern drugs were just as scary. The only ones that worked were
quinine, for malaria, and digitalis, for heart failure. The rest were
basically poisons: arsenic, bismuth, strychnine, mercury (though
mercury’s only poisonous if inhaled as a vapor). [James
Boswell](https://www.amazon.com/Life-James-Boswell-Peter-Martin/dp/0300084897/ref=tmm_hrd_swatch_0) “treated”
his numerous doses of the clap by staying indoors for several weeks
injecting mercury into his urethra until the lesions healed.

Cold-eyed realists knew it was all nonsense. Flaubert, for
example: [Madame
Bovary](https://www.amazon.com/Madame-Bovary-Gustave-Flaubert/dp/0553210335/ref=tmm_mmp_title_0)‘s
doctor husband is merely a fool, but Homais the town pharmacist is a
crook.

Are we any wiser nowadays? We surely have far better *real* medicine,
and marvelous surgery. [Imbruvica has saved my
life](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2023-02.html#08),
and a friend recently got a new knee. *A new knee!* Churchill’s quip no
longer applies: Most of today’s work is done by people who feel fine.

Colds, allergies, migraines, and insomnia are with us as much as ever,
though. We spend scads of money on treatments [every bit as
bogus](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-2829020/Cough-medicine-waste-money-whitening-toothpastes-costly-antibacterial-wipes.html) as
Boswell’s mercury. As ebola’s been reminding us, most virus infections
are incurable and have to run their course. The youngest
science *is* now a science, but it’s still young.

\[*Pips*.\]

**07 — Signoff**.     That’s all I can manage in my wasted, distracted,
and enfeebled state, listeners. My apologies to all. I should be
sufficiently recovered next week to bring you a full show, with all the
breadth and depth of coverage you have come to expect from Radio Derb.

To help lift my spirits, note please that you can support the VDARE
Foundation by subscribing to [Peter Brimelow’s Substack
account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/), or with a check to the
Foundation at P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759; and you can
support me personally by earmarking that check with my name, or by any
of the alternative options spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction), or indirectly by
subscribing to that splendid monthly
magazine [*Chronicles*](https://chroniclesmagazine.org/), to which I now
contribute a regular column. Thank you!

Immigration into the U.S.A. from India has become an issue recently,
much commented on at social media and also [here at Radio
Derb](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-01-24.html#07).
Key points of annoyance have been Indian staffing agencies taking over
the “guest worker” rackets, Indian managers preferentially hiring Indian
workers, and [Vivek Ramaswamy telling
us](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-12-27.html#05) we
are not nerdy enough.

There’s a lighter side to offset all the negativity. We can, for
example, make fun of the way Indians speak English. A major beneficiary
there has been Kunal Nayyar, who played the character Raj Koothrappali
in the TV sitcom [*The Big Bang
Theory*](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0898266/?ref_=fn_all_ttl_1).
Nayyar has actually published an autobiographical book titled [*Yes, My
Accent is
Real*](https://www.amazon.com/Yes-My-Accent-Real-Things/dp/1476761825/ref=sr_1_1).
He definitely doesn’t take himself too seriously: one of the chapter
headings in the book is “My Big Fat Indian Wedding.”

In Britain that particular vein of humor goes back way further than
here, for obvious historical reasons. One practitioner was the comedian
Peter Sellers. In 1960 he starred as an Indian doctor in a movie, [*The
Millionairess*](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0054086/?ref_=fn_all_ttl_1).
The actual millionairess was played by Sophia Loren. The plot of the
movie has her falling in love with this Indian doctor.

It wasn’t a musical movie; but to help promote it, Sellers and Loren
recorded a song that became a popular hit. Trawling through my memory
for a medically-themed song with which to finish this week’s podcast,
that song pushed itself to the front of my attention, so I’ll sign off
with it.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week.
