---
title: "The Beginning Of The End"
date: "2025-01-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33380"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33380"
---

One of the more interesting things to occur while waiting for Trump to
be installed as the new ruler of America has been Elon Musk taking on
Europe. First, he wrote an essay in support of the political party
Alternative for Deutschland, which sent the German political class into
a panic. Then Musk attacked the British government for covering up the
Pakistani rape gangs. He also demanded the release of Tommy Robinson and
said Nigel Farage should quit and let a real man take over the Reform
Party.

Stupid people said he was doing this to distract from the dustup over
H1B visas, but stupid people say stupid things like this. The world’s
richest man, close confident of the new ruler of the American empire,
does not need to distract from anything and he does not take aim at the
provincial leaders in Europe to hide from a meaningless internet spat
over immigration policy. It is safe to assume that what Musk is doing is
both deliberate and with the support of Trump.

The first thing to note is that Trump does not like Keir Starmer. No one
likes Starmer, but Trump has reasons beyond that to attack him. Starmer
was on the anti-Trump train, and he sent people to help Harris in the
election. This was a huge blunder that Trump will never forgive. Given
that Starmer is as popular as rectal cancer right now, Trump can easily
put his government in crisis. We already see this with the Musk attacks
on Starmer over the rape gangs.

Keep in mind, that this is happening against the backdrop of Justin from
Canada resigning from office after Trump made fun of him. Trump started
talking about tariffs on Canada and Trudeau immediately flew to
Mar-a-Lago to patch things up only to have Trump call him the governor
of Canada. This kept up until the Trudeau government essentially
collapsed, forcing Trudeau to resign. The collection of pipsqueaks that
make up the European political class certainly noticed this.

Keir Starmer has more to worry about than Trudeau. The British political
class has been orchestrating a massive coverup of what should be
considered treason by the political class over the last two decades.
They invited South Asian migrants into the country, who then created a
crime wave, including the mass rape of young British girls as a way of
turning them into prostitutes. Meanwhile, the British press waged war
against the local population.¹

[<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Graph.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-33381" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 959px) 100vw, 959px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Graph.jpg 959w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Graph-300x180.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Graph-768x460.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Graph-500x300.jpg 500w"
width="959" height="575" />](https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Graph.jpg)

In other words, it would be very easy for an angry Trump, with the help
of his good friend Elon Musk, to destabilize the British government. If
the choice is between Keir Starmer, and his diverse collection of
halfwits, and the relationship with the American empire, the UK economic
elite will pick the latter, even if it means forcing an unprecedented
election in which the hated Nigel Farage could win. This is not a fight
the UK political class can win.

This is a reality across the EU. The European political class can talk
big and pretend they are global leaders, but in reality, they are
provincial clodhoppers who exist at the discretion of the United States.
Trump has more respect for the wine steward at Mar-a-Lago than he does
for Emmanuel Macron. Given the fragile condition of the European economy
and the even more fragile political conditions in Europe, Trump could
easily remake the politics of Europe if he chooses.

While the drama is interesting and amusing, there is something much
bigger happening here regarding the relationship between America and
Europe. It is well known that Trump has no use for NATO. He sees it as
an expensive American obligation to a collection of pampered ingrates.
He has repeatedly said the economic relationship with Europe must
change, because as far as he is concerned, the Europeans have been
freeriding on America for too long.

What we may be seeing here is the first salvos in an asymmetric war by
the Trump administration on the legacy relationship between America and
Europe. The choice before the Europeans is to either accept vassalage in
exchange for continued American protection or regain their independence
but do so without special access to American markets and the American
defense umbrella. At long last, the Europeans are going to learn that
there is something worse than being an enemy of America.

For their part, the Europeans are taking every chance to make things
worse for themselves in this process. Probably the biggest mistake was
the arrest of the Telegram founder Pavel Durov by the French. Macron
lured him to France, where he was arrested on nonsense charges. If the
Europeans will arrest this guy, then they will arrest Elon Musk or Jeff
Bezos. This was the equivalent of the butler telling his boss to shut up
at a dinner party for the boss’s close friends.

The angry comments from Macron, Starmer and Olaf Scholz, the outgoing
German chancellor, aimed at Elon Musk suggest these people are incapable
of understanding what is happening to them. At some point the economic
elites of Europe may have no choice but to step in and begin forcing
through reform. This assumes the economic elites have enough gas in the
tank to do it. Decades of poor management by the political class have
sapped Europe of its economic strength.

Regardless, what we are seeing is the start of a process that will lead
to a fundamental revision of the decade’s old relationship between the
America and Europe. Similar to how the so-called captive nations of the
Soviet Union broke free, ushering in the collapse of communism, this
jettisoning of Europe by the United States will mark the end of both
Cold War America and the unipolar world. Decades after the Cold War
officially ended, it will finally end in the West.

¹Graph first published by Gerry Nolan at The Islander Telegram channel.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
