---
title: "Whither Europe"
date: "2025-03-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33722"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33722"
---

In the 2016 election cycle, the majority of the American people signaled
that they were done with the ideological politics that had reigned since
the Cold War. While Trump did not win a majority in the general
election, the election as a whole, including the primaries, made clear
that the public was ready to move on. The way to view the last three
election cycles is as a long struggle by the public to drag the economic
elites out of their isolation and back into politics.

That is what we saw in 2024 and what we are seeing now. What is
happening in Washington is both revolutionary and just the start. The
cutting of government payrolls is one part of a bigger change in how
America operates. The United States is about to end its empire phase and
return to being a big powerful country. It is a long overdue
transformation that has been made possible by the economic elites
realizing things had to change if they were going to remain elites.

Left out of this is what it means for Europe. The issue of Ukraine, for
example, has the Europeans on the sidelines, muttering mad ideas to one
another about how they will get along as American vassal states without
America. They are drawing up grand schemes for re-arming Germany and
developing their own nuclear arsenal, so they can pretend Brussels is an
imperial hegemon and the political classes of the European states can
continue as dysfunctional flunkies.

It is strange to see the Europeans, both their media and their
politicians, carry on as if nothing has changed. In the United States,
the talk is about the DOGE audits and making deals with the Russians and
Chinese. In Europe they are locking people up for speech crimes and
looking under their bed for you-know-who, when the closest they will
come to seeing him is in the mirror. Suddenly, Europe is a land of poor
people wearing yesterday’s fashions.

The problem is most obvious in British politics. The Economist had a
<a href="https://x.com/TheEconomist/status/1897708820022915525"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">cover</a> featuring British Prime
Minister Keir Starmer as Winston Churchill. The motivation behind it is
the British elites are still suffering from the 1938 disease that used
to rage in the United States until the antidote of the 2024 election. If
they had made Starmer look like a guest at Studio 54 it would have been
less cringe. British politics is a mess of yesterday men looking for a
reason to exist.

This <a
href="https://www.spectator.co.uk/article/can-reform-survive-the-rift-between-farage-and-lowe/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> in the Spectator about Nigel
Farage inadvertently gets at the problem faced by the Brits and all of
Europe. Farage is a generational talent in terms of democratic appeal,
but he is worthless as a politician because he accepts the fact that he
lacks elite support, especially support from economic elites. As a
result, he is always getting close to the important issues facing his
people, but he always pulls up just as he is about to engage directly
and candidly with them.

What you always sense with Farage is that he desperately wants an invite
to the cool kid’s table, so everything he does is aimed at keeping that
option open. He could give the ridiculous fops on the continent a tough
time, but he never levels the same charges at the local fops, because
that would mean giving up forever the chance to sit with them at the
cool kid’s table. He may not like their policies, but the dream of being
accepted by them still controls his actions.

It is why he is always negotiating with himself when it comes to issues
like immigration or Ukraine. Nowhere on earth is there a majority in
favor of immigration and in most places, even the thoroughly demoralized
portion of the population wants an end to the open border’s madness.
This should be a trillion-dollar bill on the ground for Farage to pick
up, but he just cannot do it.  He gets close, but always has a reason to
leave it there, staring up at him.

What Farage lacks is the backbone that comes from elite support,
especially from the economic elite. The reason for that is the
indigenous economic elite of the UK was transformed into a local office
of American Inc. It could act only with the permission of the bosses in
the main office, who for decades were happy to leave things to the
managers, both at home and abroad. The result is that the economic
elites in Europe have the same managerial mindset as the managers.

The problem can be seen in the list of “British” billionaires. We must
put “British” in quotes because the man topping the list is Gopi
Hinduja. Number three on the list is Sir Leonard Blavatnik from Ukraine.
Fifth on the list is Lakshmi Mittal. This feature of the British
economic elite is shared on the continent. What passes for the European
economic elite are people who gained their opposition by doing business
with the Americans by the rules of the Americans.

The reason the UK is becoming a garbage island is because the “owners”
have no connection to it. The servants of those “owners”, huddles in the
swanky neighborhoods of London, define themselves by their opposition to
the British people. The people of the British Isles got better treatment
from the Vikings. The reason Farage can never get elite support is
because the elites have no interest in a populist, nationalist message,
so Farage reduced to being a charming rumpswab.

There are other forces at play, but all of them have their roots in the
fact that Europe has been under American rule for eight decades. The
reason Farage cannot be the UK Donald Trump is that Farage is not a
member of the economic elite. Trump is a billionaire and sees himself as
an equal to the billionaires. His perseverance over the last eight years
won over the economic elite. Such a thing is not possible in the UK or
on the continent, so they cannot produce their version of Donald Trump.

This does not mean things are hopeless in Europe. In fact, the United
States suddenly joining the rest of the world in the 21st century is
setting the stage for Europe to finally escape the 20th century as well.
It will require a longer and more painful process, like what Russia
experience after the Cold War. The reason is Europe will need to rebuild
its institutions and develop its own elites. That can only happen when
America finally kicks Europe out of the imperial nest.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
