---
title: "The Wilderness Of Lies"
date: "2025-04-09T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-09T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33900"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33900"
---

One of the many things to spring forth from the political froth over the
last decade is the level of coordination in the mass media. It was often
clear that media activists were coordinating to create their preferred
spin, but only with the help of conservative chattering skulls like Rush
Limbaugh, who would create montages of media outlets repeating the same
catch phrases. Social media now provides this service as the algorithms
aggregate the stories and the repetition is too obvious to ignore.

Another thing that was not obvious is that many of the opinion makers,
now called influencers, are in on the scam too. Often, they are paid by
marketing companies to promote a viewpoint. The recent “soda money” scam
where the soda industry paid a bunch of Twitter influencers to promote
the health benefits of carbonated sugar drinks is an egregious, but
typical example. The truth is, much of what the influencers do is paid
for by marketing companies.

This is not just about moving product. The Israel lobby tried to
secretly assemble a collection of right-wing influencers for a session
with Bibi Netanyahu. Guys like Tim Pool were brought in so they could
ask questions and be given instructions. Instead of paying them with
cash, they get rewarded with access. This is an old trick that has
worked on the media since forever. Look for Tim Pool and other famous
influencers to sound remarkably like the ADL.

Payola is nothing new. In the golden age of popular music, record
companies sent bagmen to big radio stations so the disc jockeys would
play their songs. In the golden age of conservative politics, pens for
hire were everywhere. Ben Domenech, one of the founders of The
Federalist and RedState, was caught taking money from Malaysia to
promote the interests of that country in his columns. Many other
conservative pundits were caught up in that scandal.

This feature of the media exploded with the proliferation of digital
media and the dominance of social media. It is also much easier to spot.
The other day, a company hired by Ukraine did the soda money gag. This
time it was a bunch of paid Ukraine supporters on Twitter repeating word
for word the same erroneous claims about Chinese soldiers fighting on
the side of Russia. The campaign was quickly suspended when it was too
obvious to ignore.

It is not just the new school internet chattering skulls taking what
used to be called payola, but also the old school types. This <a
href="https://amgreatness.com/2025/04/03/all-the-ukrainian-known-knowns/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> by Victor Davis Hanson regarding
the war in Ukraine has all the marks of pay-for-post. It has the typical
neocon claims about the Russian army on the brink of collapse and the
Russian economy in tatters, two stock bits of the neocon marketing
campaign since 2022. Anyone paying the least bit of attention can easily
spot those lines as agitprop.

The big tell that this is possibly paid opinion making is the claim that
the proposed peace plan will create a DMZ along the border and the
Russians will be forced to retreat back to their old border. Not only is
this a fabrication, it is total nonsense. There is no such peace
proposal and the only people claiming so are the neocons. They have been
floating this idea since their 2023 offensive ended in catastrophe.
Rather than accept defeat, they want a break to rebuild and rearm.

There are other neocon talking points sprinkled around the text. The
claims about Russian losses are the most obvious. There is the crazy
claim that Putin is trying to reassemble the old Soviet Union. There is
also the mandatory criticism of Trump “art of the deal” negotiating
style. Imagine Bill Kristol as a pinata and once he is busted open, what
tumbles out are the main neocon talking points. Kids then took those and
assembled them into that post for Mr. Hanson.

The Ukraine war has been highly useful in understanding the manipulation
that lies behind the opinion makers. Whenever you see the phrase “full
scale invasion of Ukraine”, you know you are dealing with a pundit paid
by neocons, who are convinced this is powerful rhetoric. “Putin’s
invasion” is another example. Normal people working at honest analysis
do not use that language. These phrases are emotive signals to the
neocon cult indicating a fellow traveler.

In fairness to Hanson, he is getting up there in years and he probably
relies on an assistant to write his posts. American Greatness does not
pay its writers, so no one can blame any of them for doing the minimum.
It is a common practice for bigshot writers to rely on staff. Many of
their books are written and assembled by assistants. The bigshot writer
acts as the supervising editor. This is how Doris Kearns Goodwin got in
trouble over plagiarism claims in one of her books.

That may be the case here. The person tasked with writing these posts
simply relied on the copy provided from the neocon email list. On the
other hand, Hanson has always been tight with the neocons. He has
parroted their propaganda for years, so he could simply be doing the
same in that post. That is the point though. In this age of zero trust,
no one can be sure if it is honest error, ideological derangement,
payola, or sloppy work from an old man nearing the end.

That is the world created by decades of media mendacity. As citizens
trying to be as informed as possible, we find ourselves in a wilderness
of lies. The “objective reporting” is all narrative storytelling to
promote an agenda or a set of moral claims. Much of it is invented out
of whole cloth. Analysis is often just payola, but much of it is part of
a hidden agenda or a conspiracy. In a world where you cannot accept a
man’s opinion as his opinion, you cannot trust anything.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
