---
title: "Old Lessons"
date: "2025-04-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33992"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33992"
---

Wednesday, April 23 was supposed to be a big meeting of Western
countries and Ukraine in London where the Trump administration would
make its final push for peace to end the war in Ukraine. The meeting was
canceled due to the Ukrainians announcing in advance that they were not
interested in any deal that would require them to make concessions. This
prompted Marco Rubio to cancel the meeting, at least the portion
involving decision-makers from the administration.

The lead-up to this now-canceled meeting has been a microcosm of how the
Western political system now operates. For example, the period before
the meeting featured stories in prominent nodes of the Western
information control system about the secret details of the Trump plan.
The sources for these stories were never mentioned, most likely because
they did not exist. Instead, it was members of the Kagan cult, former
Biden people, or schemers in the British government.

It was clear that these stories were coordinated as they all featured
the same narrative and much of the same language. For example, they
dusted off the old 2024 narrative of a freeze along the front line,
something Russia has always rejected as both unacceptable and impossible
to implement. The stories also all framed the deal as a major concession
by Putin, the subtext being that he is now desperate for a way out of
the war he started for no reason at all.

One point of these stories is something seen constantly in the West.
There is the belief among the managerial elite that they can meme things
into reality. If they just pack enough versions of their desired truth
into the information control system, at some point this becomes reality.
This has been repeatedly seen with the war in Ukraine, but it has been a
feature of every major event. During Covid, they operated as if the news
stories they made up were true for a couple of years.

One possible explanation for this is that a key pillar of the managerial
state is the assumption that people respond to information, so if one
controls the information, one controls the people. Since another pillar
of the managerial state is that reality is made by people, it follows
that one can control reality, or at least the perception of reality, by
controlling the people through control of the information. The old
expression, perception is reality, has become an article of faith among
the elites.

Another part of this story illustrates how Western elites are only
capable of thinking one move at a time. The reason for the media
campaign was that they wanted the Russians to reject the deal, so they
framed it as negatively toward them as possible, assuming the Russians
would publicly respond. There was no thought given to the possibility of
the Russians remaining silent. They simply assumed it was inevitable
because this was a pleasing narrative to them.

This meant there was no backup plan. Instead, they had to have Zelensky
preemptively reject the deal to avoid a public catastrophe. This
last-minute cancellation is about buying time, which is another feature
of managerialism. Western elites now operate as if time is always on
their side. If they cannot shape reality to their liking now, then they
just need to wait until reality comes to its senses. In the case of
Ukraine, they remain sure they can outlast the Russians.

This sense of time probably stems from the fact that managerialism is a
world measured in process rather than tangible accomplishments. Normal
people measure their lives by what they have done. The managerial class
measures their lives by the networks and processes in which they are a
part. There is never any pressure to do anything in this world, so there
is no need to worry about time. There can always be another meeting to
discuss the things discussed at the last meeting.

This sense of timelessness has infected their approach to Trump. In his
first term, the plan was to put the brakes on everything and wait until
he either quit under relentless pressure or was removed. When he refused
to go away, they peppered him with lawsuits, figuring time was on their
side. Now in his second term, the court system is tasked with throwing
sand in the gears to wait out Trump. The same thing is happening with
the Ukraine war. It is endless stalling.

This is what gives the West the same feel as pre-revolutionary France.
The ruling elite of France assumed they had time, which allowed them to
avoid dealing with the serious problems facing the system. One reason
for the radicalization of the masses during that time was the sense that
no one in charge cared about the growing problems because no one could
see any action to address them. The apparent indifference to what was
happening became part of the indictment.

A similar situation happened at the end of the Soviet system. Gorbachev
was something like Jacques Necker, in that he was in his position to fix
the problems of the system, but the system refused to be fixed. His
failure set in motion the process that toppled the Soviet system.
Similarly, Trump exists because of systemic failure with the expectation
that he can fix the system. Like the reactionaries of old, the
managerial elite assumes it can wait him out.

Historical analogies are never perfect, and that is true here. The
French elite, for example, understood the systemâ€™s problems. These were
mostly smart, educated men with a deep knowledge of the system. The
modern managerial elite is populated by mediocrities skilled only in the
sort of scheming that is the basis of drama. They also possess a
stunning lack of self-awareness. The people thinking they just need to
wait out Trump also think they are loved and adored by the masses.

Wars tend to be what break dysfunctional political systems. That may be
the case with the Ukraine war. Everyone assumes Trump lacks the resolve
to walk away from this situation and leave the Europeans to work it out
with the Russians. If he walks away from Project Ukraine, the managerial
elite of the West will have a chance to learn that they cannot meme
reality into existence and time is not on their side, or they will cling
to these beliefs as they head to the dustbin of history.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
