---
title: "Science Fiction"
date: "2025-05-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34214"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34214"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about the classic film,
*2001: A Space Odyssey*, a post about conservative corruption, and the
Sunday podcast. On the Substack side of the green door, there are now
weekly videos. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When you look at <a
href="https://www.empireonline.com/movies/features/best-sci-fi-movies/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">lists</a> of the best science fiction
movies, what you see is a mix of recency bias and popular nonsense.
*Star Wars* gets placed near the top because the lists are usually
targeted to people who consume corporate slop. *Back to the Future* is
another one on these lists that does not qualify as science fiction. It
is a comedy where time travel is the MacGuffin. Of course, this raises
the question as to what qualifies as science fiction and what makes for
good sci-fi.

Science fiction is speculative fiction that relies on science to create
scenarios where questions about the human condition are more easily
explored. Artificial intelligence, for example, is useful in telling
stories about what it means to be human. We instinctively know a
computer program is not human, even if it is able to speak with us like
a real human being. That gets to the issue of what separates flesh and
blood humans from the artificial versions we are creating.

Heinlein said that science fiction takes what we know now, what we
thought we knew before now and then speculates about the future based on
a solid understanding of how science advances. Asimov famously said that
science fiction is about how humans react to changes in science and
technology. Together they make for a good definition of science fiction,
which is as much about the science as the fiction. In other words, it is
not just drama in space or in the future.

That is why *Back to the Future* is not science fiction. The time travel
business is just a way for the main characters to be funny in unusual
situations. The point of the film is to make people laugh, not challenge
their views of humanity or technology. Time travel is a MacGuffin, which
is a thing or event that moves the story along. The point of the time
travel business is to put Christopher Lloyd and Michael J. Fox in wacky
situations so they can be wacky and funny together.

Similarly, *Star Wars* is not science fiction. This has become a
controversial statement because the adult children who consume the
modern iterations of the franchise like to imagine themselves as science
geeks. George Lucas has always described the franchise as a space opera,
because it is space opera. *Star Wars* is consciously melodramatic and
formulaic. It could just as easily be set in the Middle Ages or the Old
West, but he chose to set the story in space.

In fairness, the *Star Trek* franchise can also be called space opera.
The stories in the television series are the definition of melodramatic
and formulaic. While the original series tried to think about the impact
of interstellar travel on humanity, subsequent series were standard
televisions dramas set in space. The main appeal of the original series
was the relationship of the three main characters. That could just as
easily have been done on a pirate ship in the 17th century.

That goes to what Heinlein said about science fiction. It has to try to 
project scientific progress into the future in a plausible way. We can
assume we solved the problems of humans in space, for example, but it
must do so in a way that is plausible. For example, we figured out how
to shield spacemen from radiation and mitigate the effects of zero
gravity on his muscles and bones. That means the humans still struggle
with limitations, just different limitations than current humans.

This is why the girl boss phenomenon has killed modern sci-fi. The
demand that the main character be a girl boss who never has to struggle
to get what she wants and is never allowed to fail defeats the whole
purpose of the genre. If science makes it so that girls can beat up men
three times their size and they are able to solve every problem with
minimum effort, there is no story worth telling. The girl boss turns the
genre into a lecture on gender set in space.

That comes to the other part of the formula. It is not enough for the
science to make some sense, leaving humans in a familiar conflict. The
story has to be compelling. It is why *Blade Runner* can be called great
sci-fi. The science is compelling as it suggests that material progress
does not guarantee human happiness. It also delves into the question of
what it means to be a human. The ambiguity of Deckard’s true nature and
how his story plays out is gripping storytelling.

Of course, films have another aspect and that is the visuals. World
building with the written word depends heavily on the reader. With
movies, the maker has to do all of the work in order to get the viewer
to suspend disbelief. This is another area where the girl boss ruins the
project. By definition, girl boss lives outside the physical constraints
of the world created for her. This makes that world absurd and
pointless. The film becomes a study of girl boss rather than
storytelling.

The visuals are why films like *Blade Runner* and *2001: A Space
Odyssey* are always at the top of these lists. The science is great, and
the fiction is great, but they are also visual masterpieces that have
come to define the genre. Many of the common things in space shows were
invented by Kubrick. A film about a dystopian future will always mimic
the visual sense of *Blade Runner*. It is why *Star Wars* works. The
look and sound are great, despite being formulaic drama.

One final piece of the puzzle is what the stories are telling us about
the current mood regarding science and culture. When Kubrick make *2001:
A Space Odyssey*, America was optimistic about space on the surface, but
also anxious about the ramifications of technological advance. By the
1970’s, that anxiety had subsided only to return in the 1980’s when the
microprocessor revolution hit normal Americans. Good science fiction
holds a mirror up to the age in which it is produced.

In the end, what matters most is that *Star Wars* is not science fiction
and anyone who argues otherwise should be sent to a camp. Further, there
is a debate as to whether *Blade Runner* or *2001: A Space Odyssey* is
the best science fiction film, with some room to argue for *Alien*. The
argument against *Alien* is that it is also a monster movie, so there is
a category dispute. Otherwise, your choices for the greatest sci-fil
film are down to two and there is no point in debating it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
