---
title: "Is It Too Late?"
date: "2025-04-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33941"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33941"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about Russell Brand and
what his case suggests about the state of the law, a post about using AI
as an editorial team for the posts on this site, and the Sunday podcast.
Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the questions rarely asked regarding the ongoing American crisis
is whether we have passed the point where reform is possible. Few want
to consider that possibility for obvious reasons. If reform through the
regular political process is no longer possible, then only unpleasant
alternatives remain. One of those alternatives is some form of collapse.
Like Gorbachev’s Soviet Union, America may be headed over the cliff with
nothing to prevent it.

Last week, we caught a possible glimpse of the answer. Trump rolled out
his tariff regime, and the stock markets went wild. It was not just a
global selloff; volatility was off the charts, which is worse than the
decline itself. A steady selloff occurs during a correction when markets
are overbought. A chaotic, erratic decline signals panic setting in
among the algorithms. It means their code cannot interpret the
conditions they are programmed to use for trading.

Just as things began to stabilize, the bond market started to “get the
yips”, as Trump noted on Thursday. No one in the mass media understands
this, so they kept claiming the bond market crashed, which is far from
accurate. The issue was that market players were dumping treasuries. It
is unclear why, for instance, the Japanese central bank was selling
treasuries. This uncertainty is just as worrisome as the actual dumping,
so everyone was spooked.

Typically, the reason for dumping treasuries is a liquidity issue,
either in the system as a whole or in a segment of it. In this case, the
consensus is that hedge funds were raising cash due to the market
decline. That could be true, but it is also possible the basis trade was
unraveling. This is when hedge funds bet on tiny changes in treasury
yields—a major way they generate profits within the system.

Here is how it works: Imagine you believe the value of an asset like a
treasury will decline over the next six months. You hold this asset, but
it is collateral for another transaction. You cannot sell it now, so you
agree to sell it in the future at the current price rather than the
market price at that time. If the price surges, you lose potential
profits when the contract expires, but if the price drops as expected,
you are protected from those losses.

There is much more to it, but that is the gist, and this happens across
markets for everything, even treasuries, which have been very stable.
Even earning a tiny percentage on these transactions can net millions
for a fund handling tens of billions in trades. In fact, the financial
system relies on clever quants coding models to exploit these small
discrepancies between current and future prices to generate wealth.

When Trump’s tariffs caused this system to go haywire, triggering a
panicked demand for cash, he had no choice but to back off. It was not
that the bond market revolted due to a philosophical disagreement with
the policy. Rather, this massive system is a house of cards that cannot
tolerate even minor disruptions. Trump’s tariff regime should not have
caused chaos, but the fact that it did suggests even small changes are
no longer viable.

That is not the end of it. The central bank could mitigate this by
injecting enough cash to resolve the liquidity issue. In fact, it can
inject enough to counter deliberate revolts. You cannot beat the Fed.
This should have happened last week, but Jerome Powell either refused to
act or was too inept to grasp the situation. He has been the worst Fed
chair since Arthur Burns, so incompetence is a strong possibility.

That said, the Fed held an emergency meeting just before Trump announced
his tariff plan last week, likely in response to it. Given the Federal
Reserve’s composition and its attitudes toward the American public, it
is possible they intended to undermine the process. The Bank of England
toppled Liz Truss’s Tory government, so it is not unthinkable. The head
of the Bank of England at the time was Mark Carney, who is now the
dictator of Canada.

This would imply that normalizing the American economy is no longer
possible, at least not through standard political processes, because the
entrenched interests profiting from the system will not allow it. That
is what we will discover in the next ninety days as the Trump team
navigates this challenge. Bessent has suggested they will use this time
to strike individual deals with countries rather than unilaterally
imposing a tariff schedule.

Of course, they could also have Jerome Powell killed, thus sending a
message to the parasite class that they must fall in line or else. They
never take no for an answer, so this approach never works. The Russians
had to execute a lot of oligarchs before the rest finally fell in line
with the new program. Falling in line usually meant fleeing the country
with their cash. Maybe it does not have to come to that with the
bankers, but last week was not a positive sign.

What the events of last week show is that normalizing American economic
policy is not going to be easy within the current process. It also
suggests it may not be possible without radical approaches to
implementation. We may have reached the point where even with enough
coercion, the system cannot be reformed. We may have blown past the
point of no return as far as the political and economic order, so what
lies ahead is chaos no matter what is done.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
