---
title: "The Return Of Chesterton’s Fence"
date: "2025-02-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-02-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33568"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33568"
---

One of the things lost in the excitement of the first month of the Trump
administration is the pending reform of the FBI. When Kash Patel was
grilled by the Senate, he repeatedly made clear that reforming the
agency was his top priority. This is one reason Senate Democrats are
stalling his nomination. This paramilitary wing of the Blob is calling
in every favor to preserve itself. That lawsuit seeking to prevent the
DOJ from getting the names of the J6 agents is a similar move.

There is little questioning the underlying premise of the reform cause.
The FBI has lost all credibility with the public after a string of
scandals. Framing people is a terrible thing but creating elaborate
traps for not-so-bright people, as we saw in the Michigan kidnapping
hoax, is monstrous. Most people do not know this has been common
practice for decades, but many people know it. Of course, you have the
outlandish behavior of the FBI during the first Trump term.

The topic of reform starts with looking at how an organization reached
the point where reform is required to save it. That is where the FBI is
now. Many people think it might be best to just close it down entirely.
The few necessary things it does could be transferred to other agencies
or maybe to a new agency with a severely limited portfolio, something
like an FBI-lite. When forty percent of the agency was used to go after
the J6 people over the last four years, the agency is rotten to the
core.

The number one reason the FBI is a mess is that it, like most police
forces in the country, was turned into a paramilitary unit. After the
North Hollywood shootout, where two heavily armed bank robbers tried to
shoot their way through a police cordon, every police department has
been transformed into a paramilitary unit. They got money for military
grade weapons, body armor and tactical training. They also tapped into
the military for equipment and the sort of men who enjoy military life.

The result is the police now function like British soldiers patrolling
Northern Ireland during The Troubles or American Marines patrolling
Afghanistan. No law enforcement organization group has been deformed
more than the FBI by this. Years of selection pressure has resulted in
agents who not only look at the general public with contempt, but look
forward to confrontations with them. They arrive in full battle gear and
have a hostile attitude to arrest mothers holding their children.

It is not an accident that the things the FBI is supposed to do have not
gotten better over the last thirty years. Whenever some well-known crazy
goes nuts and shoots up a public place, we always learn that this person
was “known to the FBI.” We also learn they did nothing about it. Over
the last thirty years, the FBI has been transformed from the nation’s
top law enforcement agency into a heavily armed gang of thugs who only
care about pushing around the average citizen.

You see this in the collapse of standards for FBI agents. A common video
online is two portly agents, dressed like they are going to watch their
kid’s t-ball game, paying a visit to a citizen over a social media post.
The grotesque lack of professional standards jumps off the screen.
People now expect higher standards from building inspectors and parking
attendants than from FBI agents. The ones not playing soldier are
slovenly couch potatoes with the disposition of a postal clerk.

The image of the FBI is a good example of the interplay between the
aesthetic and the spiritual that we used to understand. The poorest man
used to have a suit for going to church and for when he was buried,
because the formal things in life were the important things in life, so
it was reflected in your appearance. The Medieval scholar Erasmus,
paraphrasing Quintilian wrote, “To dress within the formal limits and
with an air gives men, as the Greek line testifies, authority.”

This is where to start with reforming the FBI. The first thing that
should happen is every agent must pass a physical test, controlled for
their age and sex, within the first ninety days or be fired. At the same
time, the agents start wearing suits and the corresponding for female
agents. Get rid of the casual clothes and you get rid of the casual
attitudes they have toward their jobs. For most, showing up to work
dressed like an adult will be terrifying, but maybe they should find
other work.

Along the same lines, there is no reason for FBI tactical units. Agents
get a standard sidearm that is locked up at their office when they are
off duty. The automatic weapons, body armor, flashbangs, etc. all go
back to the military. The guys who signed up so they can bust down doors
will not like it, but they need to think about either going back into
the military or signing up with an international security contractor.
Free people do not tolerate paramilitary units operating in their
society.

Of course, this will result in most agents leaving the FBI. The PT will
eliminate a good chunk of them and the new dress code will filter out
many more. The goons playing soldier will find the new culture
intolerable. That opens the door for the next reform, which is a return
to the old education standard. It used to be that the FBI required a
degree in accounting. Then it is expanded to computer science. Now the
ranks are littered with criminal justice majors.

In this age, the role of the FBI is to investigate technical crimes,
like computer trespass, electronic fraud, corporate crimes, and other
crimes that require intelligence. You not only need smarts to do this
work, but you need technical skills. Reestablishing educational
standards, like bringing back the dress code, is as much about fixing
the culture of the organization as raising the quality of people in it.
Smart people who take pride in their work tend not to beat up old
ladies.

In the end, the problems of the FBI are a microcosm of what has brought
managerialism to the brink of collapse. They simply stopped caring about
their core function and stopped caring about their own standards. This
opened the door to mischief and the sorts of people who feed on
mischief. It turns out that those old standards had a purpose after all.
The lesson here is Chesterton’s fence. The reform of government starts
with revisiting all the old, abandoned rules.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
