---
title: "Blackrockistan"
date: "2025-06-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34273"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34273"
---

**Note:** Tonight at 8:15 EDT, I will be on with Paul Kersey, Peter
Brimelow and Harrison Smith from Infowars to talk about remigration. I
may also announce, with a great flourish, that I am officially off the
Trump Train. Tune in
<a href="https://x.com/i/spaces/1vOGwXAXWBDJB/peek" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A question that is never asked in official circles, or even much in
unofficial ones, is why Western leaders seem so desperate for war? For
the last three-plus years, they have been scheming to start a direct war
with Russia. The rhetoric has been so crazed it suggests they have a
death wish. It is not just Russia. They want war with China and Iran,
which would mean a regional war in the Middle East. The one thing the
West seems sure about is the need for a big war.

Of course, given the increasing separation between official narratives
and reality, many are sure they are at war. The current Prime Minister
of Britain is telling his party that the country is now at war and must
mobilize the country. Emmanuel Macron has spent the last year flitting
about the continent as if he is leading Europe in a war against Russia,
despite the fact the official position of his government, and NATO, is
they have no direct role in the Ukraine war.

There is a *Little Rascals* quality to Europe at the moment. None of
these countries have an army capable of fighting beyond their borders
and many could not defend themselves against a well-armed militia.
Europe has relied on the American military for so long most have
forgotten how to fight. Instead, like the old television program, they
dress up like big boys and girls and put on a show. Watching the girl
bosses of the EU make threats is as absurd as the old television show.

That does explain one reason for the rhetoric. To be a European head of
state is to be powerless, other than the power to put on a show. France,
for example, relies on the EU to control its economy, trade policy and
immigration policy. NATO decides what France can do with its shrinking
military capability. The typical American governor has more sovereign
authority than the head of France. While not entirely ceremonial, this
is the direction for the “leaders” of Europe.

If you are allowed to do only one thing after reaching the highest
office in your country’s political system, that is the thing you will
do, and with gusto. Keir Starmer, for example, understands that the Bank
of England overthrew the Tory government and put Labour in charge of
parliament with a minority of public support. Every EU leader knows the
EU rigs elections and overthrows governments. Every European “leader”
knows he is an actor hired to play a role, so they play the role.

That gets to who is doing the hiring. Starmer is in office because the
Bank of England saw him as a suitably complaint puppet. Macron remains
in power, despite losing the last election, because Blackrock wants him
in power. Germany’s new puppet is in charge for the same reason.
BlackRock is the world’s largest asset manager controlling more than
nine trillion dollars. That means it has real power, the power to pick
who wins elections and who controls public policy.

Blackrock invested billions in Ukraine prior to the war, because it
believed Ukraine would fall into the Western orbit, which would mean
Blackrock would control trillions in natural resources. The reason the
Republicans were suddenly desperate to get sixty billion in new money to
Ukraine after the 2022 midterm victory was to get Blackrock and others
some of their money out of Ukraine. The proxy war with Russia was sold
to the bankers as an opportunity to loot Eurasia again.

Now that the war has turned against the West, the rhetoric has become
shriller for political reasons, but also as a way to sell arms.
Blackrock and other massive private asset holders have large stakes in
companies like Raytheon, Lockheed, Rheinmetall and many other arms
makers. Another reason the political class of Europe is carrying on as
if Genghis Khan is about to cross the Dnieper is they think it builds
popular support for rebuilding their militaries.

There is another element to this. The Western oligarchy is based on the
assumption that the United States is the global bank and the global
mint. It performs this dual role by controlling the global reserve
currency, which is made possible by controlling the most important
global assets. To this point, that was made possible by controlling oil
via the petrodollar agreement with OPEC. If energy must be priced in
dollars, the demand for dollars can never be challenged.

The technological revolution, which is largely responsible for creating
this new oligarchical class, has also undermined this arrangement. There
are now other things in great demand to meet the needs of technology.
Simply skimming from the oil trade is no longer enough. America needs
computing power and that means energy production, which means a massive
increase in energy consumption, along with the consumption of other
natural resources needed for big computing.

The trillions in natural resources underneath the Donbas were seen as a
quick and easy answer to the Western hunger for natural resources. Of
course, it was just the first domino in the eventual exploitation of the
rest of Eurasia. The technological revolution has turned the West,
particularly America, into a ravenous beast that must find new sources
of food to maintain itself. Big Tech and Big Finance have created a
vampire economy that is always looking for a new neck.

They say all wars are banker’s wars and this has been true since the
spread of popular government in the 18th century. Once who controls the
assets is divorced from how those assets are used, there is no longer
any control over how those assets are used by the political system. We
see that in the modern West. The people vote, politicians are picked to
fill the offices, but policy is made by those who own the assets because
the Golden Rule states, the men with the gold make the rules.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
