---
title: "Time Dilation"
date: "2025-06-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34366"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34366"
---

**Note:** Last night, America’s two leading moderate voices held a
special episode to discuss the looming war with Iran. You can listen
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/live/tiJ3G24MPJY?si=fGOBpHUjR_4O1rxj"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the things skipped past in the flurry of happenings over the last
ten days is that the Trump administration has abandoned Ukraine. Pete
Hegseth said as much in Congressional testimony where he said there were
no plans to send Ukraine additional weapons or ask Congress for more
money. At the G7 in Canada, Trump blew off a meeting with Zelensky
without saying a word. The reason given was the crisis in the Middle
East, which is now the priority.

For the Iran hawks, this is being greeted as good news as they assume
this means Trump is onboard with their war schemes, but it may simply be
the result of the clash between short term and long-term thinking. Like
the this war scheme, Project Ukraine was a short-term operation. All
involved assumed it would be a quick and glorious victory, but it turned
into a long grind. The American empire does not do long grinds, so it is
onto the next military project.

Project Ukraine did not become a long grind by accident. It was made so
through deliberate actions by the Russians. Once they realized in 2022,
after the war started, that the West was never going to negotiate, they
quickly reorganized themselves and their war plans to turn it into a
long grind. They correctly surmised that if they wanted a long-term
solution to NATO, they needed to win a war of attrition with NATO, so
they made Ukraine into a war of attrition.

It is why Trump’s deal making with Russia failed. He assumed that the
people who got everything about Russian wrong to this point were right
that Russia would jump at a short-term solution, so they used that as
leverage. What he learned was that those people advising him were all
wrong and Russia was unwilling to take a short-term deal like a
ceasefire or a quick peace. Trump has dropped normalization talks with
Russia because he sees that he has no cards to play.

Project Ukraine is an important lesson that no one in Washington is
ready to grasp as the empire stumbles its way into another Middle East
quagmire. The same people who were entirely wrong about Project Iraq two
decades ago turned out to be wrong about Project Ukraine, but the
results are much worse. The empire was eventually able to subdue Iraq
and install a neutral government, but it came with long-term costs that
continue to drain the imperial coffers.

The lesson of Iraq should have been that there are no short-term
solutions to long-term problems and long-term problems come with
long-term costs. People forget that the war with Iraq was touted as the
solution to the Middle East problem. Even if it did not result in regime
change in Iran, it would sufficiently terrify them that they would cease
to be a problem as far as Washington was concerned. Twenty-five years on
and Trump is on the edge of becoming George Bush.

We are getting the flickers of this gap between the long-term and the
short-term in the war between Israel and Iran. When Washington and Tel
Aviv cooked up the Pearl Harbor style sneak attack, it had two base
assumptions. They assumed it would work and by work it would collapse
the Iranian regime. There was no thought to what would happen after the
sneak attack. There was no thought to what could happen if it did not
work exactly as the planners promised.

Note that the Iranians have turned this into a long-term issue. They
have more missiles and drones than Iran has attack missiles and air
defense. Iran is ten times the size of Israel, so they can take a lot of
damage and survive. Just as Ukraine found itself in a numbers game that
favored the Russians, Israel is facing a similar math problem with the
Iranians now. It is why they are demanding Trump join the war. They
cannot overcome the math of their war with Iran.

If you can bear listening to the cries for blood from the usual suspects
in Washington, what you hear is a demand for quick action. They insist
that the Iranian regime is fragile, and it just needs to be pushed over
in order to get regime change. These are the same people who said the
same things about Iraq in the Bush years and said the same things about
Russia just a few years ago. There is no talk of what comes next,
because like [Ted
Cruz](https://x.com/TuckerCarlson/status/1935136085266387417), they are
incapable of such thinking.

What we are seeing with Iran is the same time dilation that has haunted
the American empire since the end of the Cold War. Perhaps it is the
result of foreign policy being run by short-term visitors or perhaps it
is the nature of democratic societies. No matter the cause, America
operates in a world where the clocks always speed forward to the desired
result. In the rest of the world, clocks move at their own pace and
often that pace is very slow and deliberate, as we see with Ukraine.

An attack on Iran assumes the clocks speed up, but that is unlikely. For
all its problems, Iran is a stable society. It has survived fifty years
of American sanctions. It survived a monstrous war against Iraq. They
think in the long term and seem to have been thinking for a long time
about what will happen if America makes war on them. Victory over Iran
means a long, bloody fight, one where the clocks move slowly. What would
come after that is decades of blood and treasure.

Ironically, the clock is now ticking on the Trump admin. They can take
the bait and fall into another grinding war of attrition. That is the
quick answer and the way the trap has been constructed by the trap
makers. They want to speed up time for Trump so he cannot wait for
better choices. On the other hand, they can just wait to see if better
choices emerge over time. In Trump’s office, there are two clocks. One
moves normally and the other races forward. Which one does he choose?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
