---
title: "The Legume Revolution"
date: "2025-06-11T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-11T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34333"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34333"
---

**Note:** Last night I was on a
<a href="https://x.com/BWLH_/status/1931815578010079673" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Twitter Space</a> with Paul Kersey, Peter Brimelow,
Harrison Smith, and Dan Lyman. The topic will be how best to remove the
alien invaders.

Tonight, the two most moderate men on the internet, myself and Paul
Ramsey, will be striking the reasonable tone on the Legume Revolution.
You can watch on <a href="https://x.com/ramzpaul" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Twitter</a>,
<a href="https://t.co/f0ZX2xXOPr" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">YouTube</a> or
<a href="https://t.co/aVLC1hv48m" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Rumble</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since Trump arrived for a second turn at the wheel, everyone has been
wondering when the Blob would make its move against him. The one thing
we know about these people is they never take no for an answer. Every
setback is met with a new round of schemes against their enemies. The
relatively muted response to this point has had many people scratching
their heads. The invader riots in Los Angeles that are spreading to
other cities appear to be the long-awaited response.

At this point, it is clear that the Los Angeles riot is synthetic. The
internet is full of images and videos showing professionally trained
rioters. For example, whenever you see college aged white girls with
whistles at one of these things, you know the army of not-for-profits
has their people on the ground training protestors. The whistle is a
common, low-tech item for professional protestors. It is often used to
alert the lawyers stationed at the protest to come to the area.

There is also the fact that the mayor of Los Angeles, Karen Bass, was on
the board of the National Endowment for Democracy. This is one of the
main hubs of the Blob, primarily used to stage color revolutions around
the world. When Bass was in Congress she was on a committee that had the
job of overseeing NED, while she was also their most senior board
member. Of course, the color revolution queen, Victoria Nuland, is
currently a senior Blob person at NED.

It appears that the plan is to replay the Summer of Floyd, but this time
with little brown guys as the fig leaf for the project. The George Floyd
riots were also a manufactured crisis, organized by white activists.
They caught fire and became a series of race riots, where blacks burned
down their own neighborhoods, but the general operation was run out of
Washington. This time they are trying get the migrants and brown
activists worked up into a ghetto riot.

That is looking to be a problem for a number of reasons. One is the
scenes of masked men waving Mexican flags while standing on burned out
cars was obviously a repeat of the scenes of blacks standing on
destroyed police cars. For some reason, the people involved think this
is good politics. It is bad politics because it is bad optics. In this
case, it highlights the fact that our rulers abetted an invasion. Seeing
foreigners celebrate in American cities like this just hardens attitudes
toward immigration.

The other problem they have, and it is clear from the videos, is that
the immigrants are not willing to riot like blacks. Legal immigrants are
in favor and tough measures against illegals and the illegals have no
interest in making it easier to get grabbed by the police and put on a
bus back home. That leaves the rioting to the twenty-something white
losers the Blob relies on as foot soldiers. Now, the blacks are taking
advantage of the opportunity and looting the sneaker stores.

Perhaps the biggest problem for the Blob this time is the world has
wised up to the color revolution rackets. Lately, they keep failing
because everyone understands that these things are not organic. The
authorities focus on the support networks in the same way you would
attack an army’s supply lines. That was what we saw in the Caucasian
country of Georgia last year. The government thwarted the Blob by going
after the foreign networks operating inside the country.

The Trump White House has learned the same lessons, which is why they
went after USAID on day one. That has hampered the Blob’s ability to
subvert, but the Blob has access to lots of resources besides USAID. It
seems the White House anticipated this, as well, which is why they were
ready for these legume riots. Note that they keep escalating whenever
the Blob people make threats. The response to Los Angeles is the same
escalatory dominance the Blob likes to employ.

So far, this strategy is paying off the White House. The public
overwhelmingly supports a tough response to these actions. The public
sees foreign men waving foreign flags in an American city, while
fighting with the police. The public naturally expects the government to
send in the army. The White House being ahead of the curve on this makes
Trump look strong and decisive. The Blob people mewing about it look
weak and dishonest, rather than self-righteous.

There is also a secondary issue here. The center of gravity on
immigration has been quickly moving in the sensible direction as the
public has become fed up with the invasion and more aware of the
details. These riots and the Trump response has put the foot on the
accelerator. Suddenly, the edgy position in normie politics is a total
ban on all immigration, not just illegal immigration. Trump himself is
starting to look like a squishy moderate on the immigration issue.

Of course, the thing looming over all of this is the change that
occurred in the oligarch class over the last year. During the Summer of
Floyd, they were happy to join in on the chaos, so they could feel like
one of the folks. They were all waving the flags and chanting the
chants. Things are different now and the main reason is they see in
their own world the risk automation brings. The AI revolution that has
captivated them has also made plain the problem of too many people.

When they think of AI, they imagined the acres of cubicles suddenly
emptied out, replaced by robots in the server farm. Those coders,
engineers and support people will need something to do soon. AI may turn
out to be a fantasy, but it could also be a tragic turn for the
oligarchs, if we suddenly have millions of unemployed smart people,
wondering how they are going to pay their bills. The scenes they now see
in Los Angeles could just as easily be in their neighborhood.

The Legume Revolution is just starting, so it is too soon to know how
this thing will playout over the coming months. The conditions are
clearly different from those leading to the Summer of Floyd. It is also
clear that the Trump admin is better too. On the other hand, the Blob
people are relentless. Like a drug-resistant virus, they must be
completely eradicated to make sure they do not return. There is much to
be done on that score, but this crisis could be a step in that
direction.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
