---
title: "Radio Derb June 06 2025"
date: "2025-06-06T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-06T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34296"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34296"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   03m16s Lunacy, Muslim-style
-   10m07s Imaginative warfare
-   15m12s Rumors of war
-   22m29s Trump and Musk
-   27m25s Valediction

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/66427358/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Welcome, listeners and
readers. This is your conclusively genial host John Derbyshire with the
D-Day edition of Radio Derb. I know of course that most of you listen to
the show on Saturday, which will be the 7th; but Friday is when I sit
down to record it, so “D-Day edition” is valid.

Calendrical matters are at the front of my mind this week as Tuesday,
June 3rd, was my birthday, my 80th birthday. I didn’t broadcast that
fact in advance, so I was pleasantly astonished at the number of emails
I got wishing me a happy birthday. How did people know? A moment’s
reflection reminded me that my birth date is there for all to see [on my
personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/People/Self/page.html).
It’s also [on Twitter](https://x.com/DissidentRight), if you go
looking; *and* it’s on [my Wikipedia
page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Derbyshire) in between the
descriptions of me as a hate-filled far-right homophobic racist
misogynist full of hate.

Even after remembering all that, I was still surprised by the number of
emails that came in: surprised, and stirred. I offer my sincere,
heartfelt thanks to all who emailed, most especially to those of you who
told me you’ve been following me ever since such-and-such, with some of
the such-and-suches going all the way back into the 20th century. Thank
you, thank you!

And yes, I had a very happy birthday. It was a lovely June day. I did
some garden work and some undemanding household chores. For dinner my
wife and kids took me to [an excellent Italian
restaurant](https://www.thefarmitaly.com/huntingtonny) in the village
here and let me make a complete pig of myself. Life is good; all the
better with a loving family and friends far and near. Thank you,
again *thank you!*

I shall have more calendrical observations later. First, a glance at the
week’s news. It’ll only be a brief one; I’m still in a holiday mood.

<span id="more-34296"></span>

**02 — Lunacy, Muslim-style**.     Sunday last came another attack on
Jews by an anti-Zionist lunatic. This was just eleven days after [the
murders](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-05-23.html#06) of
Yaron Lischinsky and Sarah Milgrim by Elias Rodriguez in Washington,
D.C.

Sunday’s attack happened in Boulder, Colorado. The attacker was a lone
male, 45-year-old Mohamed Soliman, an Egyptian national. His target was
a group of mainly-elderly local Jews conducting a weekly walk to remind
us of the Israeli hostages taken by Hamas in the October 7th raid.

Mohamed Soliman is — please try to control your astonishment — an
illegal alien. He came here on a tourist visa three years ago. After six
months that visa expired; he applied for asylum. While waiting for a
hearing, which could be years away, he applied for and got a work
permit. That expired back in April, though, so he’s been here illegally
since April. Nobody seems to know what kind of work he’s been doing, if
any.

Soliman had been planning the attack for months. His initial idea was to
just shoot the Jews, but he couldn’t get a gun permit because of his
expired visa. He therefore went with Molotov cocktails after learning
from YouTube how to make them. Fifteen of the Jews and one dog [suffered
burns](https://www.cbsnews.com/colorado/news/boulder-colorado-attack-suspect-county-court-hearing-charges/).
Twelve of the people were hospitalized, two in serious condition. I
don’t know how the dog is doing.

Thursday afternoon Soliman was charged with 118 state criminal charges,
including 28 counts of attempted murder. There will be federal
hate-crime charges, too. His wife and five children, all here illegally,
were arrested to be held for deportation, but a lefty district
judge — [a Biden
appointee](https://www.foxnews.com/us/biden-appointed-judge-blocks-deportation-boulder-attack-suspects-family-despite-visa-violations),
of course — is [blocking the
deportation](https://www.wwnytv.com/2025/06/04/judge-halts-deportation-family-boulder-firebombing-suspect/).
There’ll be a hearing on the judge’s block June 13th.

From his nationality and name it’s fair to assume that Soliman’s
particular style of lunacy is Moslem style. That at least makes his
anti-Zionism a tad more comprehensible than Elias Rodriguez’s. Rodriguez
was afflicted with woke lunacy, not Moslem lunacy, although the two seem
to be inseparable nowadays.

Nasty as it undoubtedly was, this little incident did generate one
memorable tweet.

News reports made much of the fact that the oldest of the Jews injured
by Soliman, 88-year-old Barbara Steinmetz, is a Holocaust survivor.
Strictly speaking, that’s not true. She was born in Hungary, which
wasn’t systematically rounding up Jews for the camps until the Germans
occupied the country in 1944. Her family had left well before that. They
were on the run, though, and having a rough time until [they got asylum
in the Dominican
Republic](https://forward.com/fast-forward/725398/holocaust-survivor-boulder-barbara-steinmetz/) in
1941. However, I’ll give Ms Steinmetz a pass on “Holocaust survivor” on
account of her age and those traumas of her infant years.

Well, a tweeter with the tag “Oilfield Rando” posted a tweet showing a
news picture of Ms Steinmetz with a picture of Soliman alongside it.
That latter picure was taken outside the courthouse where Soliman
launched his attack. Above the door of the courthouse there is hanging a
big rainbow-and-pastel Pride flag.

Ms Steinmetz, in *her* picture alongside, is wearing a jacket decorated
with a big lapel button reading MY PEOPLE WERE REFUGEES TOO. That
suggests open-borders sympathies. Nothing surprising there: Jewish
Americans of her generation are almost invariably hostile to almost any
kind of immigration restriction, for reasons suggested by that lapel
button. When I’ve written about immigration myself — which [I have, a
lot](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/NationalQuestion/page.html) —
some of the angriest responses have come
from [Jews](https://www.nationalreview.com/corner/immigration-incompatible-modern-society-john-podhoretz/).

Well, “Oilfield Rando” picked up those details in the two pictures and
ran with them, or rather tweeted with
them. [Tweet](https://x.com/Oilfield_Rando/status/1930398136553623729):

I had my doubts. I really did.

Then a turd world immigrant hate-crimed an open borders activist in a
gun free zone in front of a courthouse flying a DEI-Pride flag, and at
that moment I was 100 percent positive we’re in a simulation.

End tweet.

**03 — Imaginative warfare**.     There was another attack last Sunday:
a military one, in [the war between the world’s two most corrupt white
nations](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2022-04-15.html#02).
Ukraine pulled off a very imaginative operation, using drones to damage
or destroy Russian aircraft parked at their bases.

*Very* imaginative. Apparently, unsuspecting Russian truckers were hired
by undercover Ukrainians in Russia to deliver modular houses. Then, when
the truckers got near to airbases, the lids of their cargo loads opened
automatically, drones flew out and attacked parked planes.

This method of attack allowed the drones to penetrate deep into Russia.
One of the bases attacked, the Ukrainka airbase, is way out east in
Upper Manchuria on the Chinese border, four thousand miles from Ukraine.

A lot of planes were destroyed in the operation, including at least five
TU-95 strategic bombers, the U.S.S.R’s answer to our own B-52. We don’t
know the full tally yet, but it’s plain from satellite imagery
that [Russia lost a lot of
planes](https://www.ndtv.com/world-news/satellite-pics-of-2-russian-airbases-reveal-extent-of-damage-by-ukrainian-drones-8589914).

Of course you don’t stomp on the bear’s tail and get away unhurt. Sure
enough, the Russians have been pounding Ukraine. In the five hours from
midnight Thursday to 5 a.m. Friday they launched 407 drones and decoys,
nearly 40 cruise missiles and six ballistic missiles from land, air and
sea at towns and cities across the breadth of the nation, [the Ukrainian
Air Force
reports](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/06/05/world/europe/russia-missile-attack-ukraine-kyiv.html).

Kiev, Ukraine’s capital, was a main target. The *New York Times* report
tells us of attack drones swooping in, quote: “their ominous buzz
trailing over neighborhoods,” end quote.

I don’t want to sound heartless — Heaven forbid! — but this isn’t
exactly the London Blitz. As the *Times* went to press Friday morning
only four people were known to have been killed in Kiev and 22 injured.
That’s like a bad night in the South Bronx. Although to be perfectly
fair, Ukraine only publishes civilian casualties, we don’t know the
tally for military targets.

Our President seems not to want to get involved, for which I give
thanks. He’s compared the combatants to two boys in a schoolyard fight,
who need to work out their differences before the fighting could end.

I just wish he’d say out loud what I myself believe: that the
territorial squabbles of the Eastern Slavs are no business of America’s.
Let ’em go at it. It’s Europe’s business, and the Euros need to get
their act together. It’s nothing to do with us, though — or wouldn’t be,
if we’d had the good sense to pull out of NATO thirty years ago.

I’m sure you’ve heard this quip, or some variation on it, quip: “Why are
500 million Europeans calling on 300 million Americans to protect them
against 140 million Russians?” End quip.

It’s a good question. If, after defeating Ukraine — which they will
surely do — the Russians roll West and occupy all of Europe, what would
have been lost? Europe under Russian imperial rule would be better off
than Europe taken over by Islam, which is the most probable alternative.

**04 — Rumors of war**.     Here again is that little passage from
the *New York Times* report about attack drones swooping in, quote:
“their ominous buzz trailing over neighborhoods,” end quote.

That really snagged my attention. It’s creepy. Drones are creepy
altogether. They are a key component of modern warfare, though.

It is of course a cliché that generals always want to re-fight the
previous war. With the advances in tech this past couple of decades, the
difference between this war and any previous one is big indeed. Do the
world’s generals understand that?

We don’t even really know *how* big that difference is. For example:
What part will AI play in the next and future wars? I have no idea, but
I am certain there are teams of very smart people in Russia, China,
India, and I hope the U.S.A. cooking up plans.

And then, robots. Some of us have been consoling ourselves that no big
old-style wars will be fought because, with the worldwide [demographic
implosion](https://www.amazon.com/dp/1800754108/ref=mes-dp), there
aren’t enough young men to fight them. The fact that both Russia and
Ukraine have had declining fertility for decades casts doubt on that
theory; but anyway robots might take up the slack.

Sorry, but that’s got me recalling once again that Philip K.Dick Cold
War short story [*The
Defenders*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Defenders_(short_story)).
The Cold War goes hot; the entire populations of the U.S.A. and U.S.S.R.
retreat to huge bunkers deep underground. They leave the fighting to
robots up on the surface, monitoring the war via video that the robots
send down to them. Then one day the humans send a team up to the surface
to check. The Earth is a lovely, peaceful park; the robots quit fighting
long ago. They’ve been having fun staging war scenes to film and send to
the humans down below.

Hey, it’s possible. However it plays out, I feel sure that day when the
human race ain’t going to study war no more is a long way off.

The more attention I pay to the news, the more I think that even a
superpower war is very possible. I hate the thought — not on my own
account: now in my eighties, what do I care? — but for my kids and my
grandson. Uncle Sam spent four years and a lot of dollars [training my
son to be a
warrior](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Huntington2012/page.html#dodselfie).
Presumably my boy is on some kind of reserve list, liable for call-up.
If that happens, I shall zip-tie him and smuggle him down to Uruguay in
a boat.

People who make a living trying to figure out what the rulers of China
have in mind [seem to be in
consensus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0kc5brcpIw0) that 2027 is the
year Taiwan will be returned back to the warm bosom of the Motherland.
That’ll be Year Three of the current Trump Presidency. Will Trump show
the same restraint he is showing towards Russia today? Oh Lord, I hope
so.

And then, nukes. They’re all over. Even some crazy nations are nuked up,
nations you wouldn’t want to trust with your lawn mower: North Korea,
Pakistan.

Iran? Last week I mentioned Iran’s nuclear weapons. [Quote from
me](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2025-05-30.html#05):

They don’t actually have any. At least, that’s what we’re told, and we
can only hope the intelligence is good. Iran’s been working on nuke
development for at least twenty years, and it’s not *that* difficult.

End quote.

Here’s something fortifying my skepticism: a report that came out last
week from the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA. Sample quote
from today’s *New York
Post*, [quote](https://nypost.com/2025/06/05/opinion/fresh-grounds-to-snap-back-iran-sanctions-and-block-it-from-getting-a-nuclear-bomb/):

The IAEA last week released a long-awaited comprehensive report on
Iran’s violations of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.

The report details Tehran’s failure to comply with a nearly eight-year
IAEA investigation into the regime’s illicit nuclear-weapons work. It
also shows an elaborate Iranian coverup that continues today.

End quote.

So yes: I’m betting, now with more confidence than before, that the
Mullahs are nuked up, or could be at a day or two’s notice. They jeer at
Israel, calling it “[a one-bomb
country](https://www.crisisgroup.org/content/israel-7-august-2023-1).”
The Israelis are ready for them with [the Samson
Option](https://progressive.org/latest/the-samson-option-israels-plan-to-nuke-its-opponents-dilawar-20240624/):
“If we are nuked,” they say, “we’ll nuke back without mercy.”

I was born midway between V-E Day and V-J Day. I’ve lived a long life
without ever experiencing war. As human history goes, that’s pretty
unusual. I pray the peace will continue.

**05 — Trump and Musk**.     Sorry, that was pretty depressing.
Realistic, I like to think, but definitely depressing. Don’t you hate
reality?

For light relief, in today’s news we have Elon Musk breaking up noisily
with Donald Trump. Is anyone really surprised? I sure ain’t. Quote from
myself, Radio Derb last November
22nd, [quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-11-22.html#02):

Some commentators have expressed doubts that the Musk-Trump bromance can
endure for four years. I share those doubts. History doesn’t offer many
examples of two strong-willed, energetic men sharing power amicably at a
high level. “There can only be one Sun in the sky …” But we shall see.

End quote; and … we’ve seen.

If you have read [Walter Isaacson’s biography of
Musk](https://www.amazon.com/Elon-Musk-Walter-Isaacson/dp/1982181281/ref=sr_1_1_sspa) you’ll
know that Musk is a very volatile person. He’s a great man who’s
accomplished amazing things, I won’t dispute *that*. He is also, though,
an Aspergery nerd, deeply unskilled at relationships with his fellow
human beings.

Those relationships aren’t just clumsy, they’re *repetitively* clumsy.
Musk’s armory of insults is way too small. Example: [the charge he made
on
Thursday](https://news.sky.com/story/donald-trump-disappointed-with-elon-musk-after-he-turned-on-his-big-beautiful-bill-13379714) that
Trump is named in the so-far-unreleased papers on pedophile financier
the late Jeffrey Epstein.

Readers of the aforementioned biography will recall the fuss back in
2018 when Musk referred to Vernon Unsworth, in a tweet he later deleted,
as, quote, “pedo guy,” end quote.

If you don’t know the story, this all started when twelve schoolboys in
Thailand, ages 11 to 16, got themselves trapped in a cave system in the
mountains of that country. Heavy rainfall flooded the cave complex so
the boys couldn’t get out.

The story went worldwide. Elon Musk heard it and had his engineers build
a mini-submarine that he said was small enough to pass through the
flooded cave system and get the boys out. He shipped the sub to Thailand
and followed himself.

The Thai authorities decided not to use it, though. A British expert on
cave exploring, name of Vernon Unsworth, lived in Thailand and knew this
particular cave complex. He helped organize parties of divers from the
American, British, and Thai navies to rescue the boys, which they at
last did.

[Unsworth
scoffed](https://edition.cnn.com/2018/07/16/asia/thai-cave-soccer-musk-rescuer-tweet-intl/index.html) at
Musk’s mini-sub. He called it a, quote, “PR stunt,” end quote, which,
quote, “had absolutely no chance of working,” end quote. Musk, Unsworth
further said, could, quote, “stick his submarine where it hurts,” end
quote. That was in a CNN interview.

Musk was not pleased. He tweeted out insults, calling Unsworth “pedo
guy.” Unsworth sued him for that, but the federal jury in Los Angeles
said [he hadn’t proved his
case](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-50695593) so Musk walked
free.

Perhaps President Trump and Vernon Unsworth should compare notes …

**06 — Valediction**.     That’s all the news I’m going to cover this
week, ladies and gents. I shall now proceed straight to signoff, and
this week’s signoff is somewhat out of the ordinary.

I have already mentioned — and please forgive me mentioning it again —
that Tuesday this week, June 3rd, was my 80th birthday. As it happens,
that wasn’t the only memorable milestone for me this week. Today’s Radio
Derb — the one you are listening to or reading — is Number One Thousand.
It’s my one thousandth podcast since the show began in May 2004. I think
Radio Derb may be the oldest continuous dissident-right podcast on the
internet.

I can hear arithmetically-inclined listeners muttering: “Wait a minute,
Derb. May 2004? That was 21 years ago, plus a few days. There go 52
weeks to the year; this is a weekly podcast; and 21 times 52 is 1,092.
How can this be only issue number one thousand? Where did the other 92
go?”

Answer: We took a while to settle down into a regular weekly podcast;
and even when we had, I sometimes missed a week. In all those years
there were only two years with 52 podcasts, four years with 51, and six
with 50. All the rest had fewer than 50.

The total, first to last, is one thousand — trust me. Or if you don’t
trust me, go to my personal website johnderbyshire.com, select
“Opinions” from the navigation box, then “Radio Derb.” [They’re all
listed](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/page.html) there,
with transcripts. You can count ’em for yourself.

The audio is there, too, so you can listen to them all if you want to.
It’s only fair to warn you, though, that while I don’t yet know precise
minutes and seconds on today’s podcast, the previous 999 add up to
38,541 minutes and 41 seconds; or, if you prefer, 642 hours, 21 minutes,
and 41 seconds. If you were to listen for 8 hours per day, that would
keep you busy for 80 days, 2 hours, 21 minutes, and 41 seconds.

So: 80th birthday, podcast number one thousand. You’d think that two
milestones in one week would be enough of a coincidence, but there’s a
wee bit even more.

If you were following me back in 2007 you’ll recall from my monthly
Diary in April that year that I have a harmless eccentricity: [I count
my
days](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2007-04.html#02),
from the day of my birth as day number one. Well, Tuesday this week — my
80th birthday — was day number 29,221; and that, ladies and gentlemen,
is \[*drum roll*\] a [*prime
number*](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Books/Prime/page.html) !

That’s not a *sensational* coincidence, but it’s against the odds. As
numbers get bigger and bigger, the primes thin out. In the neighborhood
of a decently big number *N* the frequency of primes is roughly one in
log(*N*), where that’s the *natural* logarithm of course. The natural
logarithm of one million is approximately 13.8, so in the neighborhood
of one million, only slightly more than one number in fourteen is a
prime number.

The natural logarithm of 29,221, my birthday day number last Tuesday, is
10.28264 and change; so in *that* neighborhood, slightly fewer than one
number in ten is prime. Sure enough, 29,221 is [preceded by eleven
non-primes](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Day29221.jpg) and
followed by nine more.

The day number of my birthday being prime isn’t a miracle; but, as I
said, it’s against the odds.

So: podcast number one thousand this week, birthday number eighty this
week, day number of the latter a prime against the odds. Pondering these
coincidences, I have concluded that the universe is trying to tell me
something. What it’s trying to tell me is, it’s time to hang up my mike
and my keyboard.

To be perfectly open about it, the numerical coincidences only served as
prompts. I’ve been feeling for a while that I spend way too much time at
my computer when there are other things I should be attending to. I have
a hundred-year-old house I need to keep from falling down. I have a
nearly
forty-year-old [marriage](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Marriage/page.html) that
needs time and attention, as all marriages do. I have [a son and a
daughter](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Huntington2017/2019-07-13al.jpg) nearby
to worry about, and [a three-year-old grandson to fuss
over](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Huntington2022/2025-05-21dl.jpg),
and [a
dog](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Basil/page.html) to
walk.

There are friendships to keep up, [church
responsibilities](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Huntington2022/2025-04-20al.jpg) to
fulfil, books to read, [jigsaw
puzzles](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Huntington2017/page.html#bosch) and [crossword
puzzles](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/LitRevXwd.jpg) to
do, [shooting
skills](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Huntington2012/2013-05-18bl.jpg) and
my cribbage game to keep honed. I’m blessed with good health; but
inevitably, entering my eighties, I tire more easily than I used to, and
get less accomplished per hour of waking life.

So this edition of Radio Derb is the last.

I won’t be giving up opinionating altogether. I’m a chronic writer by
nature, [*cacoëthes
scribendi*](https://www.latin-is-simple.com/en/vocabulary/phrase/250/#google_vignette).
I shall keep up my monthly column in *Chronicles* magazine for as long
as they want me to, and I’ll do occasional book reviews for them and for
any other of the dwindling number of outlets that still publish book
reviews for the dwindling number of people who still read books. I may
try to take full advantage of social media, which up to now I never
have … although, as I said, I’m aiming to spend a lot less time at the
computer.

This valediction, like [the famous poetic
one](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/44131/a-valediction-forbidding-mourning),
forbids mourning. In these 21 years of podcasting I’ve engaged with a
mighty host of listeners and readers. I’ve learned a lot from them
that’s improved my understanding, and I flatter myself that they may
have learned something from me. Like that poet and his sweetheart — I
think it was actually his wife — whose love keeps them spiritually
united even when physically far apart, those mutual improvements in
understanding will keep me and my followers bonded together at some
level above the everyday transactional.

My heartfelt thanks to all those who’ve engaged with me by following
Radio Derb, the thanks doubled to those who’ve emailed in with wit
and/or wisdom, *tripled* to followers who’ve blessed me with donations
and gifts. And I must add my gratitude once again to the surprising
number of listeners and readers who have emailed in since Tuesday to
wish me a happy birthday. It *was* a happy birthday, made even happier
by your kind thoughts. God bless you all!

There will be *no* more from Radio Derb next week, nor in any following
week.
