---
title: "A Reasonable End"
date: "2025-03-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33826"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33826"
---

Did cavemen feel guilt? Shame? It may sound like a stupid and pointless
question, but it is a place to start when trying to understand the
current crisis. While we cannot know if primitive man felt things like
shame, we can guess. In fact, that is the point of the Genesis story of
Adam and Eve. Shame and guilt were not natural to men until introduced
by devilish forces. At least that is what the authors of the Adam and
Eve story surmised when trying to answer those questions.

To feel guilt one must have a guilty mind when committing some act,
which means you knew the act was wrong when you did it. You can also
feel guilt for having unknowingly broken a rule but learning after the
fact that you broke the rule and should have known you were breaking the
rule. Shame works the same way. It is impossible to feel guilt for
having broken a rule if you never know about the rule or you reject the
legitimacy of the rule or the authority that made the rule.

Our cavemen therefore could only feel guilt or shame if in their group
there existed a set of normative rules from a recognized authority.
Given the simplicity of their life and the demands of it, they probably
had few rules on individual conduct. Those that did exist were most
likely related to the preservation of the group. Males had to be good
hunters and not avoid pulling their weight in the hunt. Members had to
sacrifice themselves for the good of the group. That was about it for
their morality.

To answer the question at the start, the sense of guilt and shame was
probably as primitive as the moral code that existed within the group.
Given that early bands of humans were surely based on blood, as in they
were extended families, not propositional collections of strangers,
things like guilt and shame arose from the biological loyal that lies at
the heart of man. We abide by the rules of our kind because they are our
family, and we have a natural loyalty to them.

This works fine in small groups, but once small groups started to band
together to defend hunting grounds and defensible shelters, something
more was needed to extend that natural sense of loyalty to the whole
group. The trading of women, which we know was a part of early man’s
existence, was one solution. This binds the groups by blood and
therefore tapped into biological loyalty. The human sciences tell us
that the formation of larger human groups was biological.

This works with a federation of kin groups, but once human settlements
reached a large enough size, this was no longer practical, so something
else arrived. The solution to the limits of blood was religion,
specifically gods. Distantly related people may not feel a great loyalty
to one another, but those protected by the same god can feel loyalty to
one another in service to that god. Guilt and shame over breaking god’s
rules works just as well as guilt and shame over harming the family.

A crude way of summarizing this is we went from, “We are the sons of
Grog and this is how the sons of Grog live” to “We are the people who
live by this portion of the river, and this is how we live.” The next
logical step was, “We are the followers of sky god, and this is how we
live.” This allows for the group to expand, as new members merely must
accept sky god and be accepted by sky god. It harnesses guilt and shame
in the service of a group whose size extends beyond blood.

While the mental state of early man is a bit of a guess for us, we do
know that humans organized around their gods. This was the state of the
ancient world, about which we know a great deal. While what led to this
stage of human development is a bit of guesswork, we know that mankind
arrived at this point. By the time there are fully formed gods, there
are fully formed moral codes attached to them that define large groups
of people with a sense of identity.

That does not solve the puzzle of this age. We know that folk religions
eventually gave way to universal religions. About ninety percent of
humans belong to a universal religion, which means their religion is
open to everyone. You do not have to be born into Hinduism to be a
Hindu. Only a tiny portion of humanity sticks with folk religions like
Judaism which have a biological component. Everyone else is open to
people outside the blood, as long as they accept the moral claims of the
faith.

Of course, universalist religion did not end human conflict. In fact,
they probably made it worse as the base assumption of universalist
religion is that there is only one way to live because there is only one
moral authority. Once you accept that your god is the only god, it means
the other gods are false. Worse yet, those gods are an afront to your
god and they must be eliminated. The way to do that is to conquer the
people who are offering up the false god as a challenge to the true god.

The modern West has complicated this further by removing God entirely
from the Christian moral framework and replacing him with a mirror
called reason. It is reason that tells us that there must be one way of
organizing society. It is reason that tells us there must be one moral
code. Therefore, it is reason that tells us that alternative ways of
organizing society must be false. The same is true for alternative
morality, which like a false god, is an afront to reason.

If you think about it, this iteration of the Great Awakening has been
little more than the believers of one god attacking those who either
reject their god or worship another God, like the God of the Bible. Not
only do they hate your lack of guilt over violating their codes, but
they also feel guilty for not imposing those codes on you. The followers
of the god of reason ended up at witch burning as the solution to
heresy. They seek salvation through the spilling of blood.

The crisis in the West is a crisis of reason. We have reasoned ourselves
to a dead end where shame and guilt are tied to the assertion that there
must be only one moral authority, and it emits only one moral code.
Those who must have the warm embrace of faith now target their sense of
guilt and shame toward their own kind, for the sin of not embracing what
they believe is the only moral code. The rest are left to defend
themselves and civilization from the true believers.

The question at the heart of the crisis is can the fury of these zealots
be reoriented toward a folk religion or even a passive universalism? If
the answer is no, then how can society defend against them? Another way
of stating it is, can the cancer be put into remission or must it be
removed? It is a terrible question that no one wants to face, but the
West must face it. The god of reason is either reformed or removed along
with her followers as that is the only reasonable thing to do.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
