---
title: "Attritional Drone War"
date: "2025-03-18T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-18T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33769"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33769"
---

Prior to the start of the Ukraine war, it was assumed that the Russians,
if they desired, could quickly smash the Ukrainian army. Russia is a big
country with a big army and Ukraine is not as big, but few understood
that it had a big army. At the start of the war, it had an army of
350,000, with a similar number in reserve. Fewer anticipated the
hundreds of billions in NATO weapons and money. Everyone, including the
Russians, expected a short war, but instead it is a long war.

One main reason for this is technology. The Russians badly miscalculated
how the war would unfold, but they also failed to adapt to new
technology, specifically the use of drones in frontline battles. Their
first taste of drone warfare was the Bayraktar TB2 drones supplied by
the Turks to the Ukrainians. This is a medium-altitude long-endurance
vehicle that allowed the Ukrainians to precisely aim their artillery at
Russian formations, as well as directly attack those formations.

The Russians have proven to be quick learners. They rushed to embrace
the new technology and have now taken it in directions few anticipated.
First person video drones are now the primary weapon in the Russian
arsenal, used to not only attack Ukrainian men and material, but used to
shape the battlefield. This new use of drones came to the fore in the
Ukrainian Kursk offensive, which concluded last week with a stunning
Ukrainian defeat.

The “Kursk incursion” as the Ukrainians called it, was an attack across
the Russian border to gain control of the nuclear facilities in the
Kursk region. There is a nuclear power plant there and a storage
facility for nuclear weapons. It is unclear what weapons, if any, are
stored there, but Ukraine wanted to gain control of it as well as the
power plant for the purpose of nuclear blackmail. The Russians would
either surrender or Ukraine creates another Chernobyl.

The Russians managed to stop the Ukrainian offensive, but instead of it
becoming a stalemate or requiring the Russians to spend men and material
to keep the Ukrainians bottled up, it became a killing field for Ukraine
due to the Russian use of drones to police every square meter of the
region. The air over the Ukrainian formations was full of drones
twenty-four hours a day. Any effort to move men and material at any
scale was detected and attacked by drones.

To understand how drones are now used by the Russian army and to a
lesser extent the Ukrainian army, this Turkish YouTube <a
href="https://www.youtube.com/c/K%C3%BCreselSava%C5%9F%C3%A7%C4%B1T%C3%BCrkiye/videos"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">channel</a> provides video of drone
attacks with a AI generated voice over. There are three things to
notice. One is that the drone operators can fly these things into the
tightest of spaces. This allows them to hunt for assets inside of
buildings and hidden in wooded areas. These things are like a swarm of
birds that have cameras and explosives.

The other thing is they can now operate at night. This is a Russian
innovation that Ukraine has not matched. Russian FPV drones have night
vision and infrared cameras, so they can spot men moving around at
night. The “solution” to constant drone surveillance during the day was
to move men and material around at night, but now there is no hiding
from the drone swarms after dark. In Kursk, the Ukrainians were under
twenty-four-hour surveillance and attack.

The third thing is the drones are essentially networked together either
through the tether to the drone operators or through the over-the-air
system. Fiber optic drones rely on a fiber optic cable to communicate
with the operator. The operator is then connected to the Russian command
and control system. The effect is that the drones in the sky have
created a twenty-four-hour-a-day information space over the battlefield.
This massive data collection system is then used to anticipate changes.

These parts of the evolving use of drones all came together in the
stunning rout of the Ukrainians in the Kursk region last week. The
Russians could accurately predict where Ukrainian men and material will
be at all times, so they could plan the stunning move through the gas
pipelines to put troops behind the Ukrainians in Sudzha. They could also
be ready for when the Ukrainians reacted to hit them with drones and
drone-controlled artillery and glide bombs.

Kursk has become a model for drone attritional war. Filling the sky with
networked suicide and surveillance drones is the first step. This
prevents the enemy from gathering their forces for an attack. Instead,
they are required to spread out and hide everything from the
ever-present drones. The next step is to use the drones to shape the
activity of the enemy in order to create an opportunity. The final step
is to use the drones as part of combined arms assault on the enemy.

Of course, the same rules apply to the attacker. Even though the
Ukrainian drones are not as good and numerous as the Russian drones,
they still have lots of them, which means the Russians must disperse
their resources as well. The battle for Kursk quickly turned into two
armies spread thin across a wide area in order to avoid becoming an easy
target for drones. This is why it took seven months for the Russians to
dislodge the Ukrainians from the area.

To understand how this changes war, imagine if two armies are only
equipped with long bows and crossbows. One the one hand, the longbowman
can attack any grouping of men on the other side and vice-versa.
Everyone must hide in buildings and underground bunkers. On the other
hand, small assault groups of crossbowmen go out to hunt the enemy in
close quarter assaults. Once they secure an area, more men come into to
take up positions.

This is the battlefield in the drone age. Tanks and armored personnel
carriers still operate, but they are easily spotted by drones. Even
those equipped with electronic warfare countermeasures are vulnerable.
Often, they are simply used to transport men on a one-way trip. As soon
as the vehicle is disabled by the drone, the men scatter before the
drones finish off the machine. Armor is often just an expensive delivery
mechanism for small groups of men.

This is why the Ukraine war drags on. On the one hand, the Russians are
unwilling to lose men and machines on big assaults due to the threat of
drones. On the other hand, they have adapted the new technology to
slowly hunt small groups of Ukrainians and individual pieces of
equipment. Since Ukraine is fixated on holding territory, this
attritional drone war lumbers along at a snail’s pace. In Kursk, the
Ukrainians lost about four hundred men a day to these small-scall
attacks.

We are, of course, at the cusp of drone war, but it is not hard to
imagine how this could change the nature of war. At the start of the
technological revolution, technology was the great dis-equalizer. It
gave America a massive edge over the rest of the world in terms of
military power. Now, at the end of the technological revolution,
technology is becoming a great equalizer. Cheap drones are turning
expensive, high-tech weapons into liabilities and returning war to a
battle of men and wits.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
