---
title: "The Return Of Elites"
date: "2025-05-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34218"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34218"
---

**Note:** This is the five year anniversary of the death of George
Floyd, peace be upon him, so I will be part of a Twitter space
discussing the life and legacy of one of our nation’s greatest heroes.
You can listen
<a href="https://x.com/i/spaces/1BRJjmLqrBRGw/peek" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is the time of year when entertainers, politicians and famous rich
people are asked to deliver commencement speeches. Inevitably they
deliver tirades against normal people and in favor of the latest trends.
This season, the popular chant with this sort is the “rule of law” which
is ironic given that the people chanting it spent the last decade
obliterating the concept. The question that is rarely asked is why is it
that rich people are so eager to support this stuff?

It is not just the ditzy actors who are prone to this. A part of getting
rich in America is adopting the politics of the rich, which is hostile
to normal things. Rich people, until very recently, were solidly behind
open borders. They backed the street violence and chaos of the last
decade through donations to the thicket of not-for-profits. The
billionaires underwrote the entertainment content that preached the
bizarre social theories at the root of their deranged politics.

On the surface, it makes little sense. If you are a rich person, you
should not want to undermine order, as it is the rules that make you
rich. You got your wealth because of the system, so the system is your
friend. Think a little further, however, and you can see why the rich
might want to make the rules more opaque. It is a form of pulling up the
drawbridge behind them so new schemers cannot get in on the action. They
got theirs, so it is time to keep you from getting yours.

In this regard these strange opinions about how we ought to act and how
we ought to organize society function as a selection mechanism. The rich
use the willingness to adopt these opinions as a test of your
willingness to obey. This is very clearly how they select politicians.
The more suggestable the person, the more likely they are to find
success in politics. No master has ever wanted a slave who thinks
outside the box or is willing to question authority.

That said, many of our rich people believe in this stuff. For actors,
the answer probably lies in the fact that merit plays a small role in
their success. Pretending to be someone else, singing a catchy tune and
being funny are not uncommon skills. Restaurants in Los Angeles and New
York are full of people capable to being good at those things in movies
and television. Taylor Swift does not possess skills uncommon in her
trade, but she is a megastar and everyone else sings for their supper.

Randomness plays an enormous role in carny life. Hollywood is full of
stories about women who were spotted by a talent scout and turned into a
star. Then you have the many actors who landed a role in a film that
turned out to be a huge success, despite the studios thinking otherwise.
Sally Field hit it big in *Smokey and the Bandit*, for example, despite
the studio not wanting her or the film. Carny life is more about random
chance than talent and hard work.

In a world where success and failure are random chance or perhaps
decided by hidden forces unseen by the players, it is no surprise that
these people are in the sort of paranoid politics that define carny
life. It is not a huge jump from thinking shadowy figures behind the
scenes determine your fate as an actor to thinking that an invisible
army of Hitler fans secretly control society. Their lived experience
tells them that the rules are a facade for the real power structure.

Randomness explains carnies and politicians, but what about the
oligarchs? Why are so many of them fond of these paranoid politics? The
last ten years of woke madness would not have been possible without the
support of the oligarchs. In fact, the story of Trump’s return to power
cannot be understood without noticing how the nation’s richest men lined
up behind him. Most opposed him just five years ago, but then they
changed teams and now support his reform efforts.

Here is where we see chance again. Look at the oligarchs and what you
rarely see is people with unique talents for anything other than
exploiting a bottleneck or monopoly that was often the result of chance.
The PayPal mafia, the fifty or so people who founded PayPal, got super
rich by exploiting special access to the banking system in order to
facilitate online payments. Many went on to exploit new bottlenecks and
monopolies to get even richer.

This is not a novelty of this round of oligarch formation. The oligarchs
that emerged in the industrial age were similarly fortunate. A common
story of that period was one where the guy who got super rich from a new
idea was not the guy who came up with the idea, but the guy who bought
the idea and then exploited it. The industrial oligarchs were good at
gaming the system of the time, much in the same way that the modern
oligarch was the product of gaming the system.

One of the truths about capitalism and market economics is that it does
not select for virtue or even talent in the conventional sense. It
selects for the ability and willingness to find gaps in the rules and
the ability to ruthlessly exploit them. The tech barons found a gap in
property laws, for example, that allows them to steal your information
and then sell it to government and business. Without this loophole, the
giant social media platforms collapse overnight.

The result of this system that randomly awards people with opportunity
and then lavishly regards those who are willing to ruthlessly exploit
the opportunity is an oligarchy composed of sociopathic lottery winners.
The weird social politics that defines the attitudes of our elite are
both a defense against similar lottery winners lurking below and a
justification for their position. They are not just lottery winners, but
members of an elect, fated to hold positions in the elite.

It has been noted that the creation of new oligarchs of the industrial
era ended in the early 20th century. This came with the rise of
managerialism, but also with a narrowing of the economic class. The
overclass faded from the scene, retreating into philanthropy and public
service roles. From the perspective of the typical American, the gap
between the rich and poor narrowed and the middle-class came to
dominate. Getting rich came to mean doing slightly better than
middle-class.

This current revolt against managerialism led by some of the oligarchs
is coming when the fruit of the technological revolution has been
harvested. There are no new billionaires being minted from new
technology. Similarly, the financial sector that experienced a parallel
boom has consolidated as well. The one exception may be AI, but this is
why the current oligarchs are desperate to wrestle control of it from
the managerial class.

What we may be experiencing is another period of consolidation similar
to what happened after the industrial revolution. The weird social
politics are no longer useful as a defense of the oligarchy, so they are
seeking to reorder the managerial system to lock in their positions and
marginalize the sorts of politics that come with the boutique beliefs
that define the woke phenomenon. They are tapping into populism as a
useful way to pressure their fellow oligarchs into compliance.

The bulk of the 20th century was determined by elites who acted like
elites and operated from the shadows. That was peak America, from the
perspective of the typical American in this age. There was strong family
formation and a strong middle-class that defended moderate morality. A
nation full of normal middle-class people happy with the rules is not
going to cause any trouble for the elites. Perhaps that is what the
current elites are trying to recreate in this age.

This could explain the growing war on credentialism. The managerial
class is festooned with people with little practical knowledge but
festooned with credentials that they think make them a genius. This is
why they think they can tell the rich guys what to do and where to do
it. Breaking the spine of the managerial class will necessarily mean
breaking their belief system. The sudden anathematization of woke
culture is an effort to kill their gods and therefore their sense of
authority.

In the end, the thirty or so years of bizarre social politics that have
proliferated among the elites may be ending due to the consolidation of
the oligarchy. Whatever benefit there was to these luxury beliefs has
been consumed. What is left is a rallying point for members of the
managerial class who refuse to bend the knee. Restoring normal social
order is another step in shoring up the position of the oligarchs by
removing any of the remaining threats to their position.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
