---
title: "The Story Of Hollywood"
date: "2025-06-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Economics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34337"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34337"
---

If you make any effort to consume popular films and television shows,
you will notice that much of the content is now locked away on streaming
services. You will also notice that many films go straight to a
streaming service, or they have a short run in theaters then get sent to
a service. Everyone in the film business now has a streaming service and
they need content. Like a great, gaping maw that must be fed, the
services are sucking up everything they can find.

The funny thing about this shift is that the services are turning out to
be a massive money loser for the industry. On the one hand, streaming
robs from the theaters, especially small local theaters, by removing
cheap content they would use to attract daytime audiences in the
summer.  On the other hand, the public has not embraced the streaming
service concept as expected. Every service, except Netflix, is a money
loser at the moment and none of those are close to getting in the black.

The prime example of the streaming problem is Disney Plus, which loses
money every month despite having the massive Disney catalogue. It has
the most subscribers and it does generate a lot of monthly revenue, but
it also generates massive amounts of expense that swallows up that cash.
Much of this is due to the many flops Disney has produced recently, but
the concept seems to be the problem. That and the costs make pirating
films much more attractive.

The streaming story is a good example of how culture is too complicated
to model with a green visor and excel spreadsheet. The bean counters
just assumed streaming would follow the model of the rental market,
which followed the pattern they saw in the secondary theater market. Low
budget films, mediocre films and even terrible films made additional
money in the secondary theater market. When take-home rentals came
along, these films often got a second life in this market.

It has not worked that way with streaming. A film like the live action
*Snow White*, which was torn apart by internet critics, was a massive
flop at the theaters, but then had no life in the streaming market. In
the old days, it would get rentals from people curious about it or for
get-togethers with friends to have a good time laughing at a bad film.
That is not the dynamic with streaming. People will watch nothing rather
than sit down to watch a bad movie or something unknown to them.

What streaming failed to account for is the social aspect of films. In
the old days, going to the theater for many people was like going to
church. It was a thing you did every weekend, not because of the content
but because of the social aspect. The theater was where men took their
dates and the choice of film or how they selected the film to see was
part of the courtship. Friends went to the theater, even if the films on
offer were unknown or not good, because it was part of the social event.

Today, the theater is, at best, a sterile place to just see a film. In
most cases, it means wading through diversity and tolerating people
screaming at the screen, or shooting at it, in order to see a film that
will be streaming in a few weeks. The theater is also an expensive
proposition now. While this still works for big blockbuster films with
good reviews, it is a deal killer for everything else. The theater is no
longer a community experience, but a transactional one.

A similar dynamic held the rental market together. People in the suburbs
stopped at the rental place to shop for videos. Usually, it was with
friends or family, as it would be part of the social experience. Young
people with little money could rent some bad films, buy a pizza, and
make an evening of it. At the rental place people often talked about the
films, which could result in a low-budget film becoming a hit in the
rental market as word of mouth boosted its appeal.

That social aspect is gone with streaming. It is a solitary thing for
many people because of the atomization of society. No one deliberately
watches a bad film on their own because the best way to enjoy that
content is with friends. *Mystery Science Theater 3000* became a hit
because everyone could relate to it. At the same time, people are less
likely to try something unknown because why waste your leisure time on a
film that you have never heard of, that might be terrible?

Of course, the dynamics of the American film market is why the studios
now look to foreign markets for profit. This means more films high on
big flashy effects and low on sensible dialogue and plot. They went all
in comic book films at the same time they went all in on streaming for
the same reason. The flashy stuff on screen works for non-English
speakers abroad, so maybe it will work on them at home. Maybe it will
also rope in the valuable white audience as well

The reason Hollywood is in trouble, and they are in serious trouble, is
they detached themselves from the social aspects of their industry. No
other country was able to produce a movie industry like America, because
America was a unique place that needed a popular culture to hold it
together. In the 20th century, film, television and sports were what
everyone had in common. Hollywood was part of the national social
capital that defined “American” for people.

As we see everywhere, Hollywood looked at the social capital and
wondered how they could turn it into quick cash. They were not alone and
maybe not the driving force behind this phenomenon. Mass migration
played a role. The desire to harvest American social capital was also
behind mass migration. Hollywood, however, needs a shared culture to
work and now that the national social capital has been just about
consumed, Hollywood is just another commodity.

Wherever the current crisis takes us, it is likely that the story of
Hollywood tracks the story of the crisis. An industry that was integral
to the people who made it possible is suffering the same fate as the
culture it helped destroy. You cannot have a common culture containing
people from every part of the globe. At best, it is a somewhat peaceful
marketplace where people retreat into their private culture to get away
from the cacophony of alien voices in the public square.

Hollywood was always a product of the public square. For it to be
Hollywood and not just a film production center, it needed that vibrant
American public square created by the people who created America. The
people who made Hollywood could not have done it anywhere else. Now that
the public square is collapsing and the people who made it are
marginalized, Hollywood is dying. The oxpecker finally found a way to
kill the host and as the host dies, it dies with it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
