---
title: "Racism: The Death Of A Concept"
date: "2025-01-22T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-22T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Race
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33464"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33464"
---

The concept of racism is a novelty of the twentieth century that in
recent times has been treated as a timeless truth. In the last century,
the best people decided that their fellow white people had been living
in sin because they had not welcomed the descendants of former slaves
into their lives, so they set about correcting it. What started as a
project to better the material condition of black people and include
them into general society, slowly transformed into a cult of
leukophobia.

It is a good example of how a negative identity can both spread and
slowly destroy the people who embrace it. The first “antiracists” were
sober minded compared to the modern version, in that they simply wanted
to address the practical problem of incorporating the black population
into the American legal system. As a practical matter, the United States
had two legal frameworks into the twentieth century, one for the white
population and one for the black population.

The fact that this dual legal system existed in America is a great
example of how practical necessity must always come before the ideal.
America was born, in part, in the notion of equality before the law. It
nearly tore itself apart in a civil war over this very same issue, but
into the twentieth century the majority of Americans, of both races,
were comfortable with a two-tier legal system. It was this gap between
the ideal and reality through which antiracism entered.

Those first “antiracists” were opposed to this dual legal system. Soon
they were opposed to the people who defended it and then opposed to the
human reality that perpetuated it despite reforms in the law. The civil
rights revolution in the middle of the last century went beyond
eliminating the dual legal system. It was aimed at eradicating the
conditions that made it possible. Those conditions, it was assumed, were
in the hearts and minds of the white population.

This version of the Great Awakening was motivated by a desire to once
and for all eliminate that which makes racial inequality possible.
Instead of pulling up at the water’s edge of biological reality, the
reformers imagined that they were smashing into the final defenses of
racism and the racists who made it possible. That sin of racism
discovered in the last century was anthropomorphized into an army of
imaginary devils, against which the great and the good could rally.

The last generation of madness has been in pursuit of what Chief Justice
John Roberts called the folly of trying to create equality from
inequality. Not only are differences in individual people immutable,
differences on groups of people are immutable, but that itself became
one of the deadly sins of antiracism. The stubbornness of this reality
just made the antiracist more determined until they embraced state
sponsored violence against this imaginary evil.

Whether they understood what they were doing is unclear, but what
antiracism became was a mirror of what they claimed was white racism.
This started with shifting the definition of racism from “prejudice
based on race” to “prejudice plus power”, which meant only whites could
be racist. Since hating white people was not new, they shifted to hating
whiteness, the conditions that produce white people. The result was a
moral code built on the hatred of white people, leukophobia.

In the final decades of the last century, American children were taught
about the cultural lunacy in communist countries like Russia and China.
They would struggle to accept that people could submit to reeducation
camps and struggle sessions run by crazy people at war with reality. In
the fullness of time, children will look at the diversity pogroms of
this age the same way. Future children will struggle to believe that
psychopathic con artist like Robin DiAngelo were real.

Like the madness of Mao’s Cultural Revolution or the bloody madness of
Stalin’s purges, the madness of antiracism has run its course.
Yesterday, Trump signed another executive order, this one rescinding
Lyndon Johnson’s EO 11246, which established affirmative action in
government contracting. Ten years ago, anyone suggesting this was called
a white nationalist and purged from polite company. Suddenly it is in
the trophy case of the most banal political
<a href="https://x.com/realchrisrufo/status/1881910254935626011"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">activists</a>.

What we are experiencing right now is a preference cascade. Long ago, a
wiseman said that antiracism would collapse on the day a so-called
conservative professed his antiracism in front of a gathering and that
gathering started to chuckle and then burst into uproarious laughter as
they all realized the same thing. That thing was that everyone else was
sick of this nuttiness too. All sudden, it was okay to laugh at it and
so everyone indulged in hysterical laughter.

This is not to suggest that we will be restoring segregation or that
television actors will start casually dropping racial epithets. It
simply means that the social movement built around antiracism has
reached the end of the line. The quest to eliminate race as a defining
feature of public discourse ended with race as the defining feature of
public discourse, leaving it with nowhere to go but away. The solution
to a racialized public square is a de-racialized public square.

Another way of looking at this is the old expression, shirt sleeves to
shirt sleeves in three generations. This refers to the idea that wealth
gained in one generation will be lost by the third. The founder starts
the business, turning it over to his son who competently manages it. His
son then runs it into the ground. There are a lot of variations on this
same theme, but all point to the same idea. Regression to the mean is
undefeated over a long enough time span.

The concepts of racism and antiracism were created by clever people
seeking to capitalize on that gap between the American ideal and
reality. They got the social movement going and the next generation
established it as a fixture of American political discourse. For a
couple of decades, antiracism provided good jobs at good wages to
college educated people with no real skills. They just had to show up
and play their role, but instead they brought the movement to ruin.

One could also look at the death of racism, the political cause, and its
moral claims, as part of the overall decline of the American empire.
Racism and antiracism were made possible by the emergence of the
American superpower after the two great industrial wars of the twentieth
century. This last spasm of racism was made possible by the final
victory over the other great ideology to emerge from those wars. Now
that the empire is on the wane, its social movements are dying with it.

Regardless of your preferred narrative, there is no escaping the fact
that the world has suddenly shifted on the issue of race. The moral
center is coming to rest where it belonged all along with regards to
race and that it is a private matter. One chooses to live with who they
like, for any reason they like. It is not a collective matter. We are
seeing the line between the private and public reappear. The first
casualty is the concept of racism and its traveling partner antiracism.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
