---
title: "Asabiyyah"
date: "2025-06-02T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-06-02T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34268"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34268"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about the death of
college athletics, a post about building a workbench, and the Sunday
podcast. On the Substack side of the green door, there are now weekly
videos. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you were to imagine the ideal human community, you would probably
assume “ideal” meant peaceful and cooperative. There may be people who
think the ideal society is one that it is something like a prison
exercise yard, but most people think of the idyllic society as one in
perfect harmony. Everyone cooperates with one another in order to
overcome the natural challenges that come with human society.
Disagreements are worked out through the free exchange of ideas and
compromise.

Everyone understands that even on a small scale, such a thing is not
possible, but it has always been a useful metric. We often measure
society against this standard of what we conceive of as the ideal
society. It is why every year there are studies posted listing the
happiest countries or the least corrupt countries. These are ways to see
how the country stacks up against that ideal. Happy people have less
crime and corruption than people in quarrelsome, uncooperative
societies.

This is not a Christian concept as many assume. People have noticed
since the ancient times that societal health correlates with
cooperation. Aristotle talked about the concept of *philía*, which
roughly means friendship or affection. It is the glue that holds a
people together, which is a requirement of the polis. It is the natural
desire to cooperate with others, not just from personal interest, but
for the sake of the polis. The “politics” of a society, therefore, arise
from friendship and affection.

The 14th-century Arab historian and sociologist Ibn Khaldun wrote about
this thing he called *asabiyyah,* which is something like social
cohesion or group solidarity. It is the natural desire to cooperate that
arises from family and the tribe, which allows for the construction of
increasingly complex social structures. The more *asabiyyah* a society
possesses, the more it is able to accomplish. This, Khaldun noted, is
also why complex societies inevitably collapse.

The thing that makes it possible for one people to dominate other people
is that which eventually erodes their social cohesion. It is social
cohesion that facilitates cooperation, which increases the prosperity of
the society. That prosperity then brings expansion and the incorporation
of new people, who begin to drain that social cohesion. The cost of
acquiring new people is the loss of social cohesion. This then raises
the cost of governing the society, which further erodes *asabiyyah*.

There are many famous theories as to why human societies rise and fall,
but all must contend with this central truth of human society. It can
only exist when people are able to trust and cooperate with those
outside their kin group. The greater the distance from that kin group,
the more it costs to maintain cooperation. The reason empires always
fall is they end up including people so distant from one another that
they are unable to form any sort of cooperative relationship.

Look around the West and you see two things. One is the cost of the
state is spiraling upward as it becomes increasingly incompetent. An
unsaid truth of many American cities is they lack a genuine police
force. The police are just a state sponsored gang that keeps the less
organized gangs in check in order to maintain some safe areas for the
elite and the tourist areas. Parts of cities like Baltimore can no
longer be included in the concept of “civilized society.”

European cities are struggling with the same issue, but for different
reasons. Instead of an unassimilable population from an old economic
model, they imported millions of people who are genetically distant from
the native population. Many of these people are hostile to other people
imported into Europe. This alone has eroded social cohesion, but the
efforts to maintain order are also eroding social trust. Every man
jailed for speech crimes is a loss of European *asabiyyah*.

This may explain the sudden lurch in elite opinion in the United States
away from unlimited immigration to what may be open hostility to it.
Every day the window on the issue seems to move from the long-held
position of open borders to what is now called remigration, the return
of migrants to their homelands. The State Department has announced it is
opening an office of remigration to facilitate this. A year ago,
uttering the word “remigration” in many places could get you jailed.

This change is elite driven, which is what matters. Instead of an elite
responding to public opinion, it is the elite now trying to drive public
opinion. When the CEO of JPMorgan Chase speaks dismissively about
immigration, as he recently did on the left-wing cable channel CNBC,
something big is happening in the clouds. Conventional wisdom among the
elite on immigration has swung to the opposite side. There is a reason
for it, and it is not a sense of shame.

This gets back to those old concepts about what makes society possible
and how best to measure the prosperity of a society. Decades of
mismanagement due to the needs of the American empire have drained the
West of its *asabiyyah.* As a result, the cost of maintaining order in
the West is reaching a danger zone. All one has to do is look at the
budgets of Western governments and then look at the condition of
society. In many places, no government at all would be an improvement.

Therefore, it should not be surprising that it is the money men who are
the first to sense something is seriously wrong in the West. They may
not understand the cultural issues, but they see the gap between the
cost and the results. The world’s richest man was not tasked with
finding trillions in waste by accident. With $19 Trillion in debt
rolling over in the next year, the money men are right to be worried
that they have drained the last drops of *asabiyyah* from the Western
world.

While it is tempting to see this sudden realization as a positive, Ibn
Khaldun was not optimistic about a society’s ability to rebuild its
*asabiyyah.* This is a theme with all writers who examined societal
decline. Once a society hits that inflection point, it no longer has the
capacity to reform itself. Social cohesion is not something that can be
rebuilt, not even through shared struggle, as it is something that
naturally occurs. Once it is drained it is gone and the society it
produced is gone with it.

Perhaps this is a necessity as the West finally escapes the age of
ideology. The decline of the West will open the ground for new social
cohesion to form organically among the European populations that remain
in Western lands. The new, post-ideological societies, growing up in
majority-minority lands, will place social cohesion and *asabiyyah* at
the top of their social hierarchy. The new *asabiyyah* will grow out of
the wreckage of the ideological society.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
