---
title: "A Time For Choosing"
date: "2025-03-12T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-12T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33728"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33728"
---

There is an old joke about the topic of free will that goes something
like, “If free will did not exist, we would have no choice but to invent
it.” In addition to the obvious contradiction lies the fact that
everything about human society relies, to some degree, on the existence
of free will. What is meant exactly by free will is never clear, but
there is always the assumption that when people have choices, they
choose based on their sense of what is the morally right or wrong
option.

At first this might seem wrong because after all, you choosing to have
vanilla ice cream rather than chocolate is not a moral issue, but you
still go through a process by which you decide one over the other. If,
however, you think about it in terms of costs and benefits, then picking
a desert is no different from not robbing a bank. You pick vanilla
because you like vanilla more than the other choices. Similarly, you
choose not to rob the local bank because you like your freedom.

This concept of free will assumes that humans seek that which brings
pleasure and reject that which brings displeasure. Of course, this is
also the argument against free will as it suggests humans merely respond
to the conditions they encounter. If your genetic makeup means you
detest the taste of chocolate, then once you are presented with vanilla
and chocolate, you do not have a choice at all. The counter here is that
you can always choose to skip dessert.

As Steve Stewart-Williams explains in this short <a
href="https://www.stevestewartwilliams.com/p/the-problem-of-free-will-solved"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">post</a> on the topic of free will, there
are three states for us humans. There are those in which we can choose
while completely free of coercion, those where we choose with some
understanding of the potential consequences of each choice and then
conditions in which we have no choice, even though multiple options are
available. The first is an illusion, the second is useful and the third
is probably closest to reality.

This may seem like a pointless topic, but it lies at the center of human
society, because in every collection of humans there will be those who
choose not to submit to the decisions of the majority. The majority will
usually bargain with these people until they reach a point where the
will of the majority must prevail. The easiest way to force compliance
is to assume the person knows the morally right choice, but refuses to
take it, so they must be compelled to conform.

It is why the people called conservatives invest all their time creating
elaborate arguments in favor of their opinions. They lack the will and
ability to force people to agree with them, but they resort to a form of
pleading. It is the slave mentality, which assumes the master can choose
to be good to the slave, so the slave must find some way to coax that
good behavior from the master. The assumed free will of the master also
flatters the slave’s sense of right and wrong.

Of course, democratic politics rests on the assumption that people are
both rational and able to choose freely. Collectively, the choices made
by the people will reflect the general will and form public policy and
the institutions of society. It is why factionalism is a feature of all
democratic systems. Like-minded people come together to scheme up ways
to trick the rest into going along with them. This game of liar’s poker
we call democracy assumes we possess free will.

This is why the people constantly breying about democracy are also the
biggest enemies of the human sciences. Even statistical models like the
famous “bell curve” offend them because it suggests we may not have
absolute free will. If people are not infinitely malleable, then many of
the assumptions within what they call democracy cease to make any sense
at all. This is why as the talk of democracy has increased, respect for
human diversity has decreased.

It is also why AI makes so many people uncomfortable. It is not the
image of hyper-violent machines enslaving humanity. We have been
subjected to thirty years of neoconservatism and the Israel lobby, so
the rise of the machines is not all that violent or terrifying by
comparison. What spooks people the most is that AI suggests that we are
not all that variable. In fact, we are highly predictable, and that
predictability can now easily be modeled and presented back to us.

There is the main appeal of free will. If we are free to choose and we
can overcome our biases, prejudices, and the coercion of others, then it
means we can individually and collectively choose a different future
than the one before us. The existence of free will means all futures are
possible. If, on the other hand, our lives are just the result of
probability and circumstance, then the future is also going to be the
result of the great roll of the dice, over which we have no control.

The good news is that AI is not very smart and is unlikely to become a
genuine artificial intelligence, so we are safe to indulge in the
fantasy of free will. To test this, ask your favorite AI tool to create
an image of a full glass of wine. It cannot do it, because humans have
not bothered to create an image of a wine glass filled to the brim,
while calling it a “full glass of wine.” There are other tricks like
this that reveal AI to be nothing more than a very good search engine.

All of this sounds pointless, but it lies at the heart of the current
crisis. The ruling class of the West assumes they can engineer the
cultural conditions in such a way that people will choose the “right”
options. This is what lies at the heart of every radical political
movement. It is not a rejection of the human condition, but the
assertion that the human condition is a social construct. Change the
social construct and mankind can choose to overcome even his physical
limitations.

One response to this is to find new cultural engineers who have more
appealing goals and expectations. Fascism was the response to both
communism and liberalism in the last century. It is why today’s radicals
assume all opponents are fascists. The other option is to accept free
will as a useful workaround but that the human condition is immutable
and the variety of normative conditions we see are rooted in things well
beyond our ability to control. The choice is ours.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
