---
title: "Time Will Tell"
date: "2025-05-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-05-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=34089"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=34089"
---

Western countries largely came into being after the Second World War in
that their political and economic systems were formed up after the war.
There was the aftermath of the war and the Cold War that shaped the
political economy of the West. We still talk about “The West” in the
20th century sense of it, despite the fact that the Cold War is long
over and many formerly communist countries are in the EU. The West is as
much about political psychology as geography.

A part of that political psychology was a Marxist sense that the moral
questions had been resolved, at least with regards to politics and
economics. Social democracy was rebranded as liberal democracy in Europe
and in the United States it was rebranded as democratic capitalism or
free market capitalism. The mainstream political parties accepted the
consensus on politics and economics but offered small alterations to it
to distinguish themselves from the other parties.

In the United States, this meant that the two parties agreed on all the
major items like dealing with the Russians but had different approaches
to the same goal. In Europe, the main parties decorated themselves with
things like environmentalism, socialism, and some cultural items, but
they agreed on the most important items which were relations with the
United States and anti-nationalism. The former was in response to
communism and the latter was in response to fascism.

This is a highly simplified model of post-war reality, but useful in
understanding the psychology of voters and the political class. The
consensus and faith in it are what shaped politics until the current
crisis. Politicians did not have to worry about policies or ideology, as
the ideology was settled, so they just had to select from platforms that
had been approved within the consensus. The voters showed their
displeasure by voting against the incumbent or their satisfaction by
voting for him.

Even in the multi-party system of Europe, voting was a binary thing. If
the economy was good, then the parties that were associated with the
status quo did well, but if the economy was bad, then those parties were
punished. In the United States, you had the added aspect of party
fatigue. Even in good times, a party that had been in power for too long
would lose an election because the voters wanted a new look. Bill
Clinton won in 1992 mostly due to this reason.

This worked fine if the public was satisfied with the consensus and no
one was permitted to question the consensus. The fear of nuclear war
solved the first part during the Cold War and credit money handled it
after the Cold War. While there is always discontent, no matter how good
things feel, it was never enough to cause any serious doubt about the
status quo. The populist rumblings since the Cold War were marginalized
by the media and political class.

That is where the second part of the model is important. The political
classes in the West became increasing narrow after the Cold War. The
seriousness of the situation in the Cold War required serious debate
about the issues of the day, so the debate was open to a broader range
of ideas. After the Cold War, triumphalism and the economic boom
narrowed the range of tolerated opinion. The uniparty concept we see
everywhere in the West is a product of this.

This is how the West has reached the current crisis. As the public has
grown unsettled about public policy and the fruits of it, they find
themselves with no reasonable options at the ballot box. The mainstream
parties all hold the same views. This is especially obvious in Europe
where parties that are allegedly polar opposites form governments, often
as a way to exclude popular outsider parties. Germany and France now
have governments without popular support as a result.

The root cause of the crisis in the West is that old Marxist line about
once morality is settled, there is no need for politics. The Western
consensus was a moral consensus, which means the politics within the
consensus were performative. Since the end of the Second World War, the
West did not have much in the way of politics, because everyone agreed
on the important moral questions. After the Cold War, the moral
consensus narrowed, and dissent was exiled.

The current crisis is due to elite moral consensus narrowing to a set of
beliefs at odds with the sensibilities of the public. The moral
consensus has collapsed with regards to the elites and the public. What
the Cloud People believe is not only different from the beliefs of the
people over whom they rule, the Dirt People, but it is hostile to the
interests of the Dirt People. It is how the shuffling zombie that is the
UK Prime Minister can boast about favoring aliens of British subjects.

It is why there is no solution within the democratic process. That
process evolved to give the Dirt People choices approved by the Cloud
People. There will never be an option to get rid of the Cloud People on
the ballot. The point of the democratic process is to confirm to the
Cloud People that they are the Cloud People. We see this with Trump, who
is like a giant set upon by a massive swarm of bees. The democratic
system will defend its master at any cost.

Proof that the universe has a sense of humor is the fact that the West
has reached this crisis because the defenders of democracy are daring
the people to do what is necessary for the will of the people to be
respected by the state. The smug, soyish faces of the male politicians
and the schoolmarmish demeaner of the females, reeks of contempt for the
voters. They see the people as weak and contemptible for not doing what
they should, in response to the elites.

Time will tell if this holds. The election results increasingly show
that the public in the West do not like their options. As they search
for alternatives, the system seeks to eliminate those options. Maybe the
people will run out of excuses and rise up to do what they should have
done long ago. Maybe Trump succeeds enough to destabilize the system to
the point where it falters and is replaced. Maybe we just keep voting
ourselves into civilizational collapse. Time will tell.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
