---
title: "The Age of Ignorance"
date: "2025-01-03T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-03T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Mass Media
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33357"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33357"
---

**Note:** There is no show today, but for those who need to hear my
voice, I was on a couple of popular programs over the holidays. I was on
with Paul Ramsey and his lovely new cohost, Alicia Bittle. <a
href="https://rumble.com/v64udwv-happy-homelands-wednesday-january-1-2025.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Rumble link</a>. I was also on with Mike
Farris. The Rumble link for that is <a
href="https://rumble.com/v647cnj-coffee-and-a-mike-the-z-man-silicon-valley-freaked-out-over-the-prospect-of.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the strange aspects of the so-called information age is how
little information there is relative to what was expected at the start
of this age. At the dawn of the internet, everyone assumed we were on
the cusp of a great democratization of information, where everything was
available to the public. Not only would the sum of all human knowledge
be made available to everyone, but the ability to conceal information,
like government secrets, would be near impossible.

It has not turned out like that at all. In many ways, people are more
ignorant now than fifty years ago, despite having access to the great
data stream. It turns out that you must want the information in order to
have it and most people just want to be told what to think. Faced with
the great firehose of information called the internet, most people
simply find a narrative source to trust. Instead of gathering up the
available facts to understand what is happening, people just trust the
news.

This was always true, but prior to the internet there was some
competition inside the media for an audience. That meant doing genuine
reporting. The local newspaper had lots of information about what was
happening. One unexpected result of the internet is a mass convergences
of mainstream news sources and a narrowing of what is presented to the
readership. Look at a
<a href="https://www.memeorandum.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">aggregation site</a> like this one and you can see the
echo chamber that is mass media quite clearly.

The internet killed off local news and the organs that provided it. The
days of making a career as a newspaperman covering local events are
gone. Along with it the apprenticeship system has disappeared. People
entering media as a career now step into a narrow, vertical world where
the major regime outlets are at the top and everything below is aimed at
feeding people into those major outlets, while echoing everything that
comes from those outlets.

It is why we know so little about the Jefferey Epstein case, relative to
what should and could be known about it. The major media outlets have
little interest, beyond parroting government statements, so there is
nothing for the rest of the system to echo and amplify. For example, the
two guards that night have been ignored by the media, despite being the
second to last people to see Epstein alive. The NY Times does not care
about the case, so no one else cares about it.

This is a pattern with most big stories. The lunatic they caught outside
of Trump’s Florida villa should be great tabloid fodder. The guy’s
internet profile alone makes for great clickbait, but the major media
has no interest in him. In the analog age, camera crews would have
tracked down everyone who met him. In this age of a trillion cameras, no
cameras show up anywhere interesting. The same is true for the kid who
allegedly took shots at Trump in Pennsylvania.

There are many ways to describe the modern mass media, but one label
that fits is “deliberately uninterested.” There is a weird lack of
curiosity in the modern media that defies easy explanation. Sure, the
people running the Post or the Times coordinate with the government, but
one would think a small outlet would see this gap as a chance to grow
their audiences. Instead, even C-list outlets follow the lead of the
Times and Post into the great darkness of modern ignorance.

Look at the New Year’s Day terror attacks. Now that the identity of the
two people involved are known, it should spawn a million questions. The
obvious place to start is the fact that neither man fits the profile.
According to the government, for no reason at all, two military men went
crazy on the same day. The Vegas guy’s back story makes no sense
whatsoever, but so far no one in the mass media has found anything weird
about it, much less questioned the government about it.

Both guys were attached to Fort Bragg, which is a pretty big coincidence
all by itself, but this is not the first terrorist attached to that
base. This alone should spark some curiosity by the media, but when you
look closer you see there is a lot of violent crime attached to this
base. It is the sort of thing that in a prior age would be the basis for
a big expose in a major news outlet. Reporters would have been tasked
with asked the government about it, but today it gets ignored.

Even if the Fort Bragg connection is mere coincidence, we will never
learn anything about these two cases. The “journalists” will cut and
paste some government press releases into their sites and a week from
now it will be forgotten. Like the Trump assassins, the major media
outlets will simply ignore these stories and so the rest of the media
system will ignore them too. In their place will be the latest
conspiracy theories around Trump that the Post and Times are peddling.

The great leaving alone that now defines official media is, in part, due
to the professionalization of media. In the analog days, the news was a
working-class job, so there was a degree of distrust between the media
and the ruling class. Today, every journalism student imagines herself
as part of the ruling class and one day she will do her part to further
the mission of the ruling class. To reach the top of the media system,
one must be an unusually good toady.

There is also the fact that the interests of the ruling elites have
consolidated, which has resulted in confluence in the media. In the old
days, the guy who owned a major newspaper saw the guy who owned a
factory or the guy who owned the bank as a rival, so he was fine with
his people poking around in their business. He also looked at the
government as a potential problem, so maintaining an adversarial
relationship with the political class was in his interests.

Financialization has resulted in a narrow economic elite. They are all
in the same boat when it comes to how they view society, so they no
longer see each other as rivals, and they all depend on the managerial
elite to run things. In the media, the result has been a shift in skill
selection. In the old days, getting dirt on a banker and a politician
doing deals would make your career. Today, what makes your career is
building a relationship with them, so they trust you with information.

The shift to access journalism has come with new selection pressure. In
the old days, noticing patterns and having a curious mind were rewarded.
Today, those are qualities that get you weeded out early in your career.
What matters today is the right LinkedIn profile and the right
relationships. It a world where curiosity can get you expelled from your
social group, in addition to our profession, it is no wonder that
everyone in the media is good at never noticing anything.

This also explains the obsession with narratives. Now that the media is
absorbed into the managerial class, it is assumed that controlling the
narrative is the key to pushing the programs and initiates of the
managerial class. As you see inside every large corporation, everyone
feels the need to support the latest things and be seen promoting the
latest things, so what little imagination and creativity remains, flows
into creating and promoting the narratives that support the latest
things.

The result of this is we now live in an age of ignorance. The objective
facts are often more readily available than in the prior age, but they
are so layered in pejorative narratives that they are difficult to
locate. With no institutional support in finding and assembling the
facts, we are left with narratives that often serve no other purpose
than to make the participants feel like winners. The great leaving alone
that defines the public square has created an age of ignorance.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
