---
title: "Radio Derb January 10 2025"
date: "2025-01-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33400"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33400"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   04m24s Not a disaster, a tragedy
-   10m21s Illegal aliens &gt; U.S. citizens
-   14m52s The Muslim thing
-   23m48s Trump’s imperial dreams
-   26m18s *An African in Greenland*
-   33m26s Meet the norovirus
-   34m57s Unwelcome fame?
-   36m33s 2025 IYQST
-   38m51s Happy birthday to the King

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/63646362/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Greetings, listeners.
That was Joseph Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 1* and this is your
frostily genial host John Derbyshire with a brief scan of the news.

The news is of course dominated by the terrible fires over on the other
coast. The news pictures showing the devastation of Los Angeles are
really stunning. My sympathies to those afflicted, and all praise to the
brave Angelenos fighting back against the flames.

L.A. can now join the sad list of cities that have been burned out in
peacetime. Back when wood construction was the norm, such events were
not uncommon. The Great Fire of Chicago is the one everyone knows about.
That was in 1871. Legend has it that the fire was started when Mrs
O’Leary’s cow kicked over a lantern, but I don’t know if that’s ever
been confirmed.

San Francisco suffered devastating fires in 1906, following the great
earthquake of that year. It’s a little-known fact that far more
buildings were destroyed by the fires than by the earthquake itself.

Better known to British schoolkids was the Great Fire of London in 1666
that destroyed the old St Paul’s cathedral, giving Christopher Wren the
opportunity to build the new one. Also on the upside, it likely put an
end to the great plague of earlier that year, by killing all the rats.

Yes: back through history peacetime cities have gone up in smoke. My own
little provincial hometown, Northampton in the English Midlands, [burned
down in
1675](https://openlibrary.org/books/OL21829289M/A_contemporary_account_of_the_fire_of_Northampton_1675).
Our schoolmasters used to tell us that the medieval town records, kept
in the town castle, were moved to All Saints’ Church for fear the castle
would be burned down. As it happened the castle went unscathed; but All
Saints’ was burned to the ground and the records were lost. Municipal
incompetence is *not* a new thing.

So Angelenos are in plenty of historical company here, although I don’t
suppose it’s much consolation for them to know that.

And it’s an ill wind that blows no-one any good. Hop over to Amazon.com
and put the words “The Great Los Angeles Fire” into the search box.
You’ll see that there was [a novel of that
name](https://www.amazon.com/product-reviews/067125135X/ref=acr_dp_hist_5) by
Edward Stewart, published in 1980.

Stewart wrote [a shelf-full of
novels](https://www.bookseriesinorder.com/edward-stewart/), none of
which I’ve read. Amazon has “The Great Los Angeles Fire” at sales rank
9,687,510 in Books, with just one posted review, dated 2015. This week’s
events might give it a boost. That would be too late for Stewart, who
died in 1996, but might help his estate
beneficiaries.<span id="more-33400"></span>

**02 — Not a disaster, a tragedy**.     What lifts this week’s fires
from a disaster into the realm of tragedy is that they are happening in
California, the most progressive state in the Union.

The voters of California, we all know, elect only persons of the highest
sensitivities to govern them. Concern for the environment is always
placed ahead of mere brutish considerations of human amenity. Officials
appointed to supervise agencies like [Forestry and Fire
Protection](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/LAFD.jpg) or [Water
Management](https://www.ladwp.com/who-we-are/executive-management/person/janisse-quinones) are
selected first and foremost with proper regard for Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion, as of course they should be.

There’s the tragedy. You can see that … Wait: my audio files seem to
have got somewhat tangled here. Give me a moment, please, while I
untangle them.

\[*Pips*.\]

[*The Gods of the Copybook
Headings*](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Readings/gods.html).

\[*Pips*.\]

**03 — Illegal aliens &gt; U.S. citizens**.     Here on the other coast,
the one where the Derb estates are located, public officials are not as
fanatically environmentalist as those of California, but they *are* very
punctilious in defending the Constitutional rights of illegal aliens.

What’s that? You didn’t know that illegal aliens have rights under our
Constitution? Welcome to Suffolk County, New York — my own home county,
population one and a half million, occupying the eastern part of Long
Island.

Thursday last week [federal judge William
Kuntz](https://www.law.com/newyorklawjournal/2022/03/22/brooklyn-judge-who-required-vaccinated-jury-in-murder-trial-rejects-defense-motion-for-new-trial/) handed
down a 36-page ruling telling my county that we had violated the
Constitutional rights of several hundred illegal aliens when, back in
the Obama administration, our Sheriff’s office detained them until
federal immigration agents could show up and take them into custody for
civil deportation proceedings. Note please that the feds, actually ICE
(Immigration and Customs Enforcement) had *asked* the Sheriff’s office
to hold the aliens.

Once again: The Sheriff of my county, Suffolk County, had several
hundred illegal aliens detained or identified, I don’t know how. He
notified ICE. They asked him to hold the aliens until they could get
some agents here to take them into federal custody.

[Judge Kuntz
declared](https://nypost.com/2025/01/08/us-news/li-county-forced-to-pay-60m-to-illegal-immigrants-for-holding-illegal-immigrants-at-federal-governments-request-officials/) that
New York State Law doesn’t allow our Sheriff to co-operate with federal
law enforcement in such a shameless, brazen way. He has ordered the
county to pay sixty million dollars to the aliens.

So I and my fellow residents of Suffolk County have to hand over our
money to illegal aliens because our county Sheriff complied with a
federal request. Note that the feds, who made the request, do not have
to pay. And this is all according to a federal judge.

Although on that last point, Judge Kuntz does have the full support of
New York State Attorney General Letitia Lardbutt, who filed a brief on
behalf of the alien scofflaws back in April last year. Quote from her:

Contrary to the contention of the defendants and the United States,
federal law does not independently authorize state or local officers to
make the civil immigration arrests at issue here.

End quote.

I don’t know the exact number of illegals being rewarded here. The news
reports just say “hundreds.” If it’s six hundred, the payout will be one
hundred thousand dollars per border-jumper, paid ultimately I guess out
of my property taxes.

So while we East Coast slobs may not be as attentive as Californians are
to the interests of [tiny freshwater
fishes](https://x.com/greg_price11/status/1877055198604017790), we are
way out ahead at prioritizing the Constitutional rights of illegal
aliens over the pocketbooks of U.S. citizens.

And if you’re not sure where in the Constitution those rights are
affirmed, just email a query to Judge Kuntz’s office, I’m sure they’ll
be glad to tell you.

**04 — The Muslim thing**.     There has definitely been some big turn
towards openness in public discussion, some widening of the Overton
Window. Has all this been triggered by Donald Trump winning our November
election; or was that just one expression of something deeper?

Whichever is the case, the noise in Britain about Muslim rape gangs is
surely a part of what’s happening. Britain is a cultural colony of the
U.S.A. so big sudden changes over there are echoing events here,
although with a British twist.

Anyone who pays attention has known about the Muslim rape gangs in
British cities for decades. An excellent, very well-researched book
about it was published nine years ago. [You won’t find the book on
Amazon](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/EasyMeat.jpg) for
some reason, but [it’s on the Barnes & Noble
website](https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/easy-meat-peter-mcloughlin/1138903085) and
they’ll sell you a paperback copy for $24.99. Title: *Easy Meat: Inside
Britain’s Grooming Scandal*. Author: Peter McLoughlin. Sample quote from
the Overview at Barnes & Noble, quote:

So McLoughlin dug deeper and what he found shocked him: there were
mounds of evidence that social workers, police officers, Muslim
organisations, journalists and even some Members of Parliament must have
known about these grooming gangs for decades, and they had turned a
blind-eye to these crimes. He also came across references to incidents
where any proof had since vanished. McLoughlin spent several years
uncovering everything he could and documenting this scandal before the
evidence disappeared. He demonstrates that the true nature of this
grooming phenomenon was known about more than 20 years ago.

End quote.

Once again: The book came out in 2016. Peter McLoughlin was toiling away
at those researches from the late 2000s through the early 2010s. And now
suddenly, in 2025, [it’s
news](https://x.com/libsoftiktok/status/1877158593356587201).

In that long cover-up you see the power of the media, and of the larger
ruling-class establishment of which it is one department. Once again,
re-quote:

Social workers, police officers, Muslim organisations, journalists and
even some Members of Parliament must have known about these grooming
gangs for decades.

End quote.

Could this have happened in the U.S.A.? I don’t think so. As I said,
Britain is a cultural colony of America so they adopt all our crazy
social fads. Having adopted them, however, they then overlay them on
older, strictly British foundations.

What they took in here was what I’ve been calling the Cold Civil War:
two big blocs of legacy white people who can’t stand the sight of each
other, engaged in constant battle. Racial minorities are sometimes
enlisted to dig field latrines or feed the horses, but otherwise they
just lurk around on the fringes of the battlefield, waiting for a lull
when they can run in and loot the corpses.

In the U.S.A. the Goodwhite-Badwhite cut is between educated
metropolitan elites and working people, especially in the South. It’s
not deep and old, though. “Log cabin to White House” is still an ideal.
America’s Goodwhites are arrogant and often brutal, but they know there
are limits to their acceptability. The main racial minority has been
blacks, their numbers small, the troublesome ones easily appeased by
being ranked as Honorary Goodwhites.

In Britain the Goodwhite-Badwhite cut is overlaid on centuries of class
privilege and subordination — all the way back to the Norman Conquest,
when English people became second-class citizens of their own country.
There was no racial minority until the 1950s. Today there are three:
blacks from the Caribbean and Africa, Hindus from India, Muslims from
Islamia, mainly Pakistan.

Blacks have proved generally manageable using techniques imitated from
the U.S.A. Hindus are clannish and often annoying, but on the whole have
merged quite well into Goodwhite ranks, even ascending to [the Prime
Ministership](https://www.biography.com/political-figure/rishi-sunak).
That leaves Muslims.

Most Muslims of course want to live their lives, raise their families,
and mind their business without trouble. There are, though, big
minorities of Muslims who are otherwise disposed. This is true wherever
there has been large-scale Muslim settlement. In 2025 that means all
over Western Europe. It makes Muslims a very poor fit for Western
society.

By the turn of the century Britain’s Goodwhites were aware of this. By
then however, millions of Muslims had settled in Britain. The
troublesome ones would, it was assumed, eventually assimilate into
British culture. In the meantime their malefactions could be covered up,
or blamed on Badwhites and their dumb, badly-parented, promiscuous
daughters.

That whole model of Goodwhite management is falling apart. One sign of
its disintegration is the accelerating disappearance of the word
“grooming” in discussions of the Muslim rape gangs, as if they were
kidnapping these 13-year-old girls so as to teach them the proper way to
brush their hair. That isn’t what they were doing.

“Grooming” is even more offensive than the other term Goodwhites have
been using to mask reality: “asylum seeker” for “illegal alien.” Both
terms are, I am pretty sure, fast declining in frequency.

The disintegration of Goodwhite control is fortified by news from
elsewhere in Europe. From Sweden, for example, which is now [slamming
the national gates
shut](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/debate/article-14249517/ANDREW-NEIL-Sweden-ruthlessly-migration-crisis.html) and
paying settlers to move back to their home countries.

So yes, there has been a turn: a turn from wishful thinking to realism
all over the West. I think Donald Trump’s election was a symptom of the
turn, not a cause of it. I’m not even sure Trump is a very good fit for
these new times. I have no doubt, though, that he is better suited to
them that what went before.

**05 — Trump’s imperial dreams**.     Ah yes, the Donald. This week our
President-Elect has been indulging himself in some flights of imperial
fantasy: Take back the Panama Canal, rename the Gulf of Mexico, annex
Canada, buy Greenland.

Probably these are just the ramblings of a guy with too much time on his
hands while waiting to move into his new house. There is some realism
there in among the dreamings, though. Why *shouldn’t* we take back the
Panama Canal, if it can be done without too much trouble? We built the
durn thing, didn’t we?

Annexing Canada, on the other hand, is a crazy idea. The 47th President
has major and immediate national problems to deal with; taking in Canada
would just double the load. Let’s work on fixing what we can fix, and
leave the dreams of imperial grandeur to number 48, or 49, or 50 …

The Greenland suggestion is worth considering, though. There are [some
great mineral
resources](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/Greenland.jpg) there.
It’s just across the Pole from Russia; [Putin is already issuing
warnings](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14266963/Russia-Greenland-warning-Trump-Arctic-watching.html).
The ChiComs will meddle if they can.

I’ve already written about [a coming scramble for
the *Ant*-arctic](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2024-11.html#04).
It wouldn’t be surprising to see one for the Arctic, which is much more
accessible and more relevant to the big players of geostrategy — like
all of them, it’s in the Northern hemisphere.

Denmark, to which Greenland currently belongs, seems to have no very
passionate determination to hold on to the place. The Prime Minister of
Greenland just the other day [called for independence from
Denmark](https://x.com/CollinRugg/status/1875337006143729668).

So yeah, food for thought on that one. I have, though, a personal image,
a [Greenland of the
mind](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Straggler/109.html), that
I’d like to share with you. I’ll give it a segment of its own.

**06 — *An African in Greenland***.     I have never been to Greenland
and have only ever read one book about the place. That one book,
however, left a deep impression on me; so much so, I wrote a review of
it — a long review, more than three thousand words. That review was
published in *The New Criterion* May 2004 issue. [It’s archived on my
personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Miscellaneous/africaningreenland.html),
where you can read it at your leisure.

The book’s title is *An African in Greenland*. It is about just what the
title says it’s about: in the late 1950s a young man named Tété-Michel
Kpomassie from one of the tribes of what was then French West Africa
went to live in Greenland. He stayed there about ten years. Then he
moved to France and wrote a book about his Greenland adventures. He
wrote in French, of course; the first English translation was published
1983.

To give you some of the flavor of the book, here are a few short quotes
pulled from my review.

Quote:

It is, as it sounds, the strangest travel book ever written. One can
only imagine how the appearance of this tall, very black young African
struck the Eskimos of Greenland’s tiny, isolated settlements. Kpomassie
carries the whole thing off brilliantly. Open-minded, self-assured,
adaptable, acutely observant, and obviously very personable, he is the
perfect guide to the Eskimos and what was left of their culture in the
mid-1960s.

End quote.

Kpomassie was shocked by the casual sexual promiscuity of the Greenland
Eskimos. Here’s a quote straight from the book, Kpomassie speaking. The
European names notwithstanding, these are all Eskimos he’s writing
about. Quote:

When we got to Lydia’s room a little earlier than expected, we saw Karl,
Adam’s brother, lying naked in the bed beside Lydia! They were drinking
beer and laughing. Seeing them lying there side by side, I couldn’t help
feeling upset … To my astonishment, she didn’t understand why I was
angry … In Greenland, jealousy is frowned upon … Greenland morality was
beginning to disgust me.

End quote.

Was this looseness just transmitted from the Scandinavian
welfare-statism of Denmark? Apparently not. Kpomassie treks further
north, to a traditional Eskimo community. Quote from my review:

At the northernmost of his residences, a traditional Eskimo turf house,
he slept together with all his host’s family in a single bed, for
warmth. The family included a girl of twenty who was eight months
pregnant. She claimed not to know who the father was, but \[*inner
quote*\] “village gossip alleged it was her own father.” \[*End inner
quote*.\]

End quote.

Quote. This is another one straight from the book, Kpomassie speaking.
As before, the people he’s talking about are all Eskimos. Quote:

Apart from Eric … and one or two others who often left the village on
fishing expeditions, none of the people I met seemed to have any
definite job. Gerhart trailed me around with him day and night and
seemed to do nothing. \[Karl\] gave me the impression of being a
parasite living off his brothers … As for Hans, who supposedly worked at
the naval dockyard, not once since my arrival had he gone to work. Yet
Paulina was always offering coffee and drinks to visitors. How did she
get the money? Well, let’s face it: a lot of able-bodied Greenlanders
simply live on allowances from the Danish government.

End quote.

Nineteen-sixties Greenland seems, on Kpomassie’s account, to have been a
dirty welfare slum with sloppy morals. He fell in love with the place
somehow, though, and his book has lyrical passages about whale hunting
in the Arctic Ocean and driving a dog-sled team alone, quote: “through
starry nights swept by the aurora borealis,” end quote.

I don’t suppose 2025 Greenland bears much of a resemblance to the one
Tété-Michel Kpomassie described. Writing that review of his book back in
2004, I did some quick research and turned up this from the BBC News
website, quote:

Many of the Eskimo (Inuit) people survive by hunting and fishing and are
struggling as fish stocks become depleted. \[Greenland’s\] population is
only 56,000. Inhabitants face severe social problems, notably
unemployment, alcoholism and rates of AIDS infection.

End quote.

So maybe things aren’t all that different. If any listeners have more
recent first-hand experience of the place, I’d be interested to hear it.

**07 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  If I appear to be giving you short measure this week,
listeners, I apologize. I have been afflicted by a virus — the
norovirus.

If you haven’t made its acquaintance, the main effect of the norovirus
is emetic; that is, it makes you puke.

That’s an understatement, though. I’ve puked before. Back in the
beer-drinking days of my younger years, I occasonally drank to excess
and ended up on my knees talking into the big white telephone. Based on
those episodes, I thought I knew about puking.

The norovirus introduced me to a whole new world of vomit. I could swear
I brought up the contents not just of my stomach, but of my entire
gastrointestinal tract. There was nothing left in there — nothing left
in *me* except a mighty desire to lie on my bed groaning for two or
three days.

Sorry, I didn’t mean to gross you out. I’m much better now, back to
normal. I’m just a couple of days behind with everything, that’s all.

*Item*:  Following on from that one, though: the “noro” at the beginning
of “norovirus” snagged my attention.

I know the medical prefixes we all know: “gastro-” for the guts,
“cerebro-” for the brain, “hemo-” for the blood, “pneumo-” for the
lungs, and so on. What’s “noro-,” though?

Cassell’s *Latin Dictionary* has nothing between *norma* (“a carpenter’s
square for measuring right angles”) and *nos* (“plural of *ego*“).
Liddell & Scott’s *Greek-English Lexicon* has nothing
between *νοοσ* (“mind”) and *νοσερóς* (“sickly, ill”).

I consulted Dr. Google. Apparently the “nor-” of “norovirus” refers
to [the little town of Norwalk in
Ohio](https://www.ideastream.org/health-science/2018-03-19/the-virus-named-after-an-ohio-city),
where the beastly thing first made itself known back in 1968.

Does Radio Derb have any listeners or readers in Norwalk, Ohio? How do
they feel about having a virus named after their town?

*Item*:  UNESCO has declared this year, 2025, to be the [International
Year of Quantum Science and Technology](https://quantum2025.org/). The
reason is, that it was a hundred years ago, as near as you can pin it
down, that quantum mechanics really got airborne.

If you’re not up to date on your history of science, here’s something I
wrote in my review of Gino Segrè’s 2008 book about those momentous
events, book title *Faust in Copenhagen: A Struggle for the Soul of
Physics*. [Quote from
myself](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Math/faust.html):

The terrific theoretical turmoil of the 1920s, and most especially of
1925-27, gets five of this book’s fourteen chapters. The task facing the
author here is to bring out the conceptual revolution that took place in
those years, the unprecedented need for a new way of thinking about the
subatomic world. These were the years when it dawned on researchers that
the intuitions we acquire through our interactions with reality at
everyday scales of measurement are simply not appropriate to events in
the realm of electrons and protons.

End quote.

So welcome to the International Year of Quantum Science and Technology.
The definitive comment here was posted on X by everyone’s — well, every
guy’s — favorite theoretical physicist, Sabine
Hossenfelder, [quote](https://x.com/skdh/status/1877237992059777294):

It will be both good and bad at the same time.

End quote.

**08 — Signoff**.     That’s as much as my poor norovirus-addled brain
can manage this week, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your time and
attention, for all your good wishes and generosity.

This has been a week of birthdays. On the 5th, [my daughter
Nellie](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyAlbum/Huntington2017/2019-07-13al.jpg).
God bless you, sweetheart. On the 6th, [my brother
Noel](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/People/Brother/page.html),
who would be 95 had he not unfortunately left us nine years ago. On the
7th … Wait a minute, I have to dig around a bit here … um … Oh yes, of
course: Millard Fillmore, the 13th President, born 225 years ago.

And on the 8th, the King — his 90th. Here’s something from him.

There will be more from *me* next week.
