---
title: "Dogs And Bones"
date: "2025-01-13T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-13T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33414"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33414"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about the coming
troubles for Europe with regards to Ukraine, a post the eternal war
between mice and cats, a video from the bed of my truck and the Sunday
podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“A dog who will bring a bone will carry a bone” is an old-time
expression that usually is meant to say that someone who will steal for
you will steal from you. More generally it means that an immoral person
on your side will eventually let you down or go over on the other side.
The underlying assumption is that even in an adversarial environment,
there are rules. The person who violates those rules can never be
trusted, even when their rule breaking favors you.

This “lack of a code” lies at the heart of the traitor in wartime. The
person who makes a deal with the enemy is harshly punished, usually
executed, not because of the practical aspects of their crime. It is not
that they gave the enemy an advantage or useful information. It is that
they violated the code that holds everyone together in the fight. They
have excluded themselves from the company of men who can be trusted to
uphold the code when no one is looking.

Similarly, the traitor that comes over from the other side is usually
treated with suspicion. In the Cold War, defectors were rarely treated
well by either side. Russians who betrayed their countrymen just so they
could get an American passport were treated well enough to encourage
others, but they were assumed to be disreputable people. The Russians
took the same view. Famous spies like Kim Philby, who defected to the
Soviet Union, were never welcomed by Russia.

Again, the underlying reason for the way traitors have been treated by
their own people as well as the enemies of their people is that someone
who breaks trust for any reason cannot be trusted. Someone who
deliberately breaks a sacred trust is especially suspicious. It is why
American corporations used to discriminate against divorced men. If your
wife cannot trust, why should your boss? Adultery used to be a serious
social crime when we were a proper society.

It is a good thing to keep in mind as we head into what is looking like
another interregnum. Suddenly, the people who were sure Donald Trump was
Hitler are now strangely quiet. Much of it is simply the fact that their
emotional tank is drained. A decade of hysteria has run it course. At
the same time, many have just decided to change tactics, seeing that
their Hitler lies failed to stop Trump. They will come up with new lies
because it is what liars do. They lie.

The same should apply to those who look like converts. Someone who was
an implacable opponent of even the slightest pushback but is now “coming
around” on things like immigration should be treated with a great deal
of suspicion. They could simply be opportunists. That is, after all, the
spring that motivates every traitor. They see an opportunity for
themselves in violating the trust of others. Often, they lure their
victims into trusting them so they can betray the trust.

A great example is Ben Shapiro. Everyone with two brain cells knows his
deal. He is an ultra-Zionist whose only interest is his people. He is
willing to lie promiscuously for that cause. It speaks to the nature of
Zionism that its most fervent practitioners are the least endowed with
European morality. Even the most fervent Nazi understood that there is
such a thing as truth. It was the Nazis, after all, who gave us the
expression “The Big Lie.”

That aside, even when a Ben Shapiro is doing damage to the enemy, it is
important to always qualify the praise so no one forgets that a dog that
will bring a bone will carry a bone. If an arsonist burns down the house
of that guy selling drugs near the high school, it is normal and healthy
to be happy for his suffering or death, but it should never be an
endorsement of arson. If the arsonist, however, is one of your guys,
then that is another matter. “Who” is what matters, not how.

Those are easy cases, but a more challenging example is someone like
James Lindsay, who started out in life as an anti-Christian bigot. He
then moved on from that hustle to tricking academic journals with fake
grievance studies papers. Lindsay and Peter Boghossian made up fake
studies using the bizarre jargon of the grievance studies rackets. These
papers were made deliberately ridiculous to expose the vacuity of the
so-called social sciences.

This was hilarious and it confirmed that the people involved in these
fields are mostly hucksters making a living off lunatics. The trouble
though is Lindsay and Boghossian were deceiving people not on behalf of
their cause or for their people. They were betraying people for personal
advantage. In other words, they were bringing a bone to one group but
would eventually carry a bone from that group. This is what we now see
with their attacks on populists and Christians.

Whatever benefit came from these two subverting the grievance studies
people came at the cost of having them attack the people who cheered for
them, but from a position of greater authority. When James Linday was
just a chubby massage therapist hating on Christians, no one cared. Now
that he is a famous internet influencer; he can do real damage. It is a
good reminder that giving power to immoral people is never a good idea.

None of this means that political actors must be purer than Caeser’s
wife. As Mr. Dooley said, “Sure, politics ain’t bean-bag. ‘Tis a man’s
game, an’ women, childer, cripples an’ prohybitionists’d do well to keep
out iv it.” Or as Carl Schmitt would put it, politics is about friends
and enemies. The thing to remember is that it is a commitment to the
morality of the cause that distinguishes the friend from the enemy, so
even though an enemy can be useful, they remain enemies.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
