---
title: "Radio Derb March 14 2025"
date: "2025-03-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33745"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33745"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   01m04s Ireland’s new troubles
-   16m39s Something to dress up for
-   27m51s Free Puerto Rico!
-   31m05s Vance socks it to them
-   32m13s Too many foreign students?
-   32m27s Too woke for Disney!
-   36m11s Signoff:  As Irish as it could be

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/64892464/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! Welcome, listeners and
readers. This is of course your gratuitously genial host John Derbyshire
with a look at the news.

This week’s podcast is more than usually self-indulgent. Inspired by the
coming St. Patrick’s Day, I got talking about the home islands over the
water there and couldn’t stop. I beg your pardon, and hope you find
something interesting here — I mean, as interesting to you as it
obviously is to me.

Here we go.<span id="more-33745"></span>

**02 — Ireland’s new troubles**.     Monday, March 17th is St. Patrick’s
Day, a sort of ethnic pride day for the people of Ireland and the Irish
diaspora. That diaspora, if you include all levels of consanguinity,
includes [almost one in ten
Americans](https://thehill.com/homenews/nexstar_media_wire/4532278-maps-how-irish-is-your-state).

In recognition of the event, I thought I’d record my own acquaintance
with the Emerald Isle, slight as it is, and give a quick survey of
recent events, events that have left Ireland today a not very happy
country.

The first things I ever heard about Ireland were from my father. As [a
British
soldier](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/FamilyHistoryJD/Photographs/01_pre-1931/page.html#jrduniform) during
World War One, before the Republic of Ireland was founded, Dad was
stationed there briefly — in County Cork, I think it was — before being
shipped to the Western Front.

I don’t know the precise dates Dad was there, but those were the years
around the 1916 Easter Rising, with much anti-British agitation. “They
shot one of our lads coming out of church,” Dad remembered.

These troubles notwithstanding, Dad seems to have liked the Irish in
general. The place was very poor at that time, and Dad sympathized.
Quote: “People, pigs, chickens, all living together in one falling-down
hut; but they’d always share a drink with you.” End quote. He reported
ordinary Irish people as being non-hostile — friendly, in fact.

Dad, who was a stone-cold atheist, blamed the troubles of those times on
the Catholic church. Quote: “We’d see them of a Sunday going to mass.
They’d wave at us and call out to us, cheerful as you like. But then the
priest would work on them and they’d come out an hour later howling blue
murder.” End quote.

Forward half a century to my college days in the mid-1960s. Ireland was
an independent republic by this time, but still very poor. Young
Irishmen, mainly peasant lads from the poorest counties in the far west,
would come over to England and work as construction laborers. I worked
construction myself in the college vacations, and most of my co-workers
were Irish.

Like my Dad, I found them easy to get along with in the generality,
good-natured and humorous. They were of course much more experienced
than I was in common laboring work. They gave me much patient, helpful
instruction on things like the right way to wield a shovel or control a
jackhammer. (That sucker will jump up and jackhammer your foot if you
don’t hold it right.)

I particularly admired the way they always knew the precise location of
the foreman, so that we could slacken off working when not visible to
him.

From being among them I learned things not generally known about their
country: that it was plagued by criminal gangs, for example — [the
Sicily of the British
Isles](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2016-02.html#06).
I don’t know if that is still the case.

Everything changed in the 1970s. The biggest change for the Irish came
in 1973 when they joined the European Economic Community, which was
incorporated into the EU twenty years later. This had major economic
consequences. It took Ireland’s governments a while to take full
advantage of them; but the following years were the infancy and
childhood of the Celtic Tiger of the 1990s and early 2000s.

I got a glimpse of it myself, on a one-month contract as a computer
programmer in Dublin, 1981. Ireland wasn’t rich yet, but she was no
longer dramatically poor.

The other big change was the Troubles — paramilitary groups fighting and
killing over whether Northern Ireland should remain under the British
Crown or be united with the Republic. The Troubles generated a lot of
headlines but only occasionally spilled over the border into the Irish
Republic, which went on steadily climbing out of its ancient poverty to
become a modern European nation.

The social transformation of these later years was fascinating to watch;
so much so that in 2002, when I had been settled in the U.S.A. for
seventeen years, I published a column arguing
that, [quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Britain/interestingireland.html):
“I believe Ireland to be the most interesting place in the world right
now.” End quote.

To give you the flavor, here is the closing paragraph of that 2002
column. Longish quote:

\[*Inner quote.*\]  “All changed, changed utterly: a terrible beauty is
born,” \[*end inner quote*\]
remarked [Yeats](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Reviews/Considerations/yeats.html) at
the time of the Easter Rising. What has actually been born in Ireland
during this past 20 years has been a modern, secular, hedonistic welfare
state with a globalized economy, a Marxified Academy, a crime problem, a
drug problem, an immigration problem and a terrorist problem. Is that
terrible? Or beautiful? Your answer is probably a good indicator as to
whether or not you are going to enjoy the first half of the 21st
century.

End quote.

Ireland’s people *did* enjoy the years around 2002. The Celtic Tiger
strode through those years confidently until the crash of 2008 when
Ireland, at this point very globalized indeed, took a bad hit.

She made a fair recovery through the 2010s; but some economic trends —
the financialization of the housing market, high-tech foreign
multinationals dominant but short of skilled labor — made Ireland an
expensive country, hard to live in for the working- and
lower-middle-class legacy Irish population.

A cultural gap opened up, or widened, along with the economic one. While
on the path to globalized wealth, the nation acquired a big educated
class with luxury beliefs imported from America and Europe — wokesters.

There is something in the Irish national character that made this easier
than it might have been elsewhere. The world-saver impulse has always
been strong among the Irish. Their missionaries have been credited
with [keeping Europe
civilized](https://www.catholicworldreport.com/2023/03/16/232403/) after
the collapse of Rome.

(My private opinion, based on personal encounters, is that the
male-female balance also has something to do with it. Women are, [as
Orwell told
us](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/10366332-it-was-always-the-women-and-above-all-the-young),
the shrillest and most true-believing adherents of any ideology. Ireland
seems to be cursed with an unusually large number of such women, of whom
Irish men are terrified. Was [Mother
Machree](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0TeI7cajtsY) in fact a ruthless
tyrant? Were those civilizing missionary monks of the Dark Ages fleeing
from her? I leave this topic for future discussion.)

So in today’s Ireland we see an amplified version of the blithe attitude
to Third World settlement now common all over Europe, including Britain.
Most of that settlement is undocumented, and so can’t properly be called
“immigration.”

The losers here — rural and working-class Irish people — have been
protesting and demonstrating for years, most sensationally in [the
Dublin riots](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cjrpzp1q8j1o) of
November 2023 following a knife attack by a foreigner on some
schoolchildren. The perp in that case turned out to be
a *legal* immigrant, but that only came out later, after George
Floyd-scale rioting.

For a nation of just over five million — a nation once best known
for *e*-migration — the numbers for immigration (with or without
quotation marks) are striking, although they need some qualification.

In the year up to April 2024 [150 thousand people from abroad settled in
Ireland](https://www.laoistoday.ie/2024/08/29/17-year-high-sees-almost-150000-people-immigrate-to-ireland-in-just-12-months).
That was a 17-year high. Of that 150 thousand, however, 30 thousand were
returning Irish citizens, 27 thousand were other EU citizens and 5,400
were British. The remainder, nearly 87 thousand, were from the rest of
the world, a high proportion of them — I can’t find an estimate — having
no documentation. And in that same one-year period almost 70 thousand
people *left* Ireland, the highest emigration figure since 2015.

Carol Nolan, a member of the Irish Parliament, commenting on these
figures last August, said, quote:

This is a multi-generational catastrophe unfolding in plain sight; one
that is already crippling the capacity of the state to meet current
housing and medical need.

End quote.

At about the same time last summer, there were [indignant news
stories](https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/its-too-many-people-in-too-small-an-area-row-brewing-over-plans-to-house-280-migrants-in-tipperary-village-of-165-people/a953110517.html) about
the village of Dundrum in County Tipperary, population 165, where the
Irish government planned to settle 280 “international protection
applicants.” That’s an Irish euphemism for “illegal aliens.”

There is now a steady rumble of discontent on social media about illegal
settlement. On X, for example, [Michael
O’Keeffe](https://x.com/Mick_O_Keeffe/status/1900161180875813010) posts
daily, at least. Another Michael, journalist Michael Murphy of the
London *Daily Telegraph*, posted [a good 15-minute YouTube
clip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=llAnoLFUgHM) last year, as also
did the immigration-skeptical [Hindsight
thread](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0MdqYRiNSXw).

For all that rumbling, though, it’s not likely Ireland will do anything
to stem the inward flow of settlers. In that respect the Irish are
behind other European countries, where mass deportation is now a subject
for open public discussion. Ireland’s ruling class remains blithe.

Opinion polls show half of Irish voters want immigration reform; but in
the general election last November, no major party took a strong
position on the issue. Three-quarters of the vote went to the big old
unimaginative center-right and center-left parties with the rest going
to Greens and far-lefties.

So for Ireland, present trends will continue. Well-educated foreigners
will come in to work at high tech in [what is today a rich
country](https://www.noahpinion.blog/p/how-ireland-got-so-rich).
Destitute Third Worlders will come in for the freebies. Legacy Irish
from the countryside and poorer towns will emigrate, as they always
have.

A “multi-generational catastrophe”? Quite possibly; or perhaps it will
all be managed somehow. I doubt I shall live long enough to see the
result.

If demography is destiny, Ireland will undergo great change in the
future; but they will put that change off for as long as they can.

**03 — Something to dress up for**.     So yes: Monday, March 17th is
St. Patrick’s Day. Much less noticed was this past Monday, March
10th: [Commonwealth Day](https://thecommonwealth.org/commonwealth-day).

Say what, Derb? You mean, like, the [Commonwealth of
Virginia](https://politicsandwar.fandom.com/wiki/Commonwealth_of_Virginia)?
Or the [Commonwealth of Massachusetts](https://malegislature.gov/)?
Which one?

No, neither of those. Not Kentucky, Pennsylvania, or Puerto Rico
either — all of them commonwealths for some purposes. No: this Monday,
March 10th, celebrated the British Commonwealth of Nations, formerly
known as the British Empire. And yes: Commonwealth Day was originally
Empire Day.

I can remember my primary-school class being assembled in the schoolyard
on Empire Day to sing [*There’ll Always Be an
England*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EGrES89AKz4). Heaven help me,
I can still sing it. \[*Sings*\]:

There’ll always be an England  
And England shall be free  
If England means as much to you  
As England means to me …

No, I’m not drunk, just a little nostalgic. That England, the one I grew
up in, has of course been transformed by the passage of time. Some of
the changes have been for the better: public health, life expectancy,
social equality, technological advance, … There have been losses along
with the gains, though.

Most nostalgia-inducing of the losses has been the loss of the national
solidarity expressed in that song.

It wasn’t actually much to do with the Empire. A big part of it was
having been on the victorious side in World War Two. There was
sentimentality about the monarchy, too: the pretty young Queen, her
handsome consort and their photogenic children. Back of all that was a
sense of kinship, of common ancestry.

Most of that has faded, inevitably. Today’s Britain is no longer a
nation of much importance. [Ranked by GDP *per
capita*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_GDP_(nominal)_per_capita#Table) she’s
actually poorer than Ireland — ranked number twenty against Ireland’s
number three.

Much worse, and less inevitably, that sense of kinship has taken a hit
from uncontrolled mass immigration. [Opinion
polls](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/UKimmigpoll.jpg) record
widespread resentment about this; but that resentment seems unable to
find a political home. The two historically big political parties won’t
touch the issue.

A new party, Nigel Farage’s Reform Party, seemed for a while to take a
more robust approach, but just recently Farage has been [scoffing at the
idea of mass
deportations](https://x.com/stillgray/status/1898865069485903900). As if
deliberately insulting his followers, he has also appointed as chairman
of the party a bloke named [Muhammad Ziauddin
Yusuf](https://x.com/WGthink/status/1899981061934682594). [Reform is
imploding](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2025/mar/11/reform-uk-nigel-farage-v-rupert-lowe) and
immigration restrictionists are now as homeless as before.

The British Empire is of course long gone. After India and Pakistan
gained independence in 1947 Britain’s other imperial possessions
followed pretty steadily for fifty years: through to [little
Belize](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2024-12.html#03) in
1981, Brunei in 1984, and the return of Hong Kong to China in 1997.

However, most of those imperial possessions didn’t cut the cultural tie
when they cut the political one. Most signed up to the British
Commonwealth of Nations: a voluntary association now of 56 countries
with total population two and a half billion.

Most populous member nation: India with over 1.4 billion. Least
populous: Tuvalu, a Pacific island nation with fewer than twelve
thousand citizens. Other big, notable members: Canada, Pakistan,
Nigeria, the U.K. of course, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, …
there’s [a comprehensive list on
Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Member_states_of_the_Commonwealth_of_Nations).

So what does it *do*, this Commonwealth of Nations? What’s it *for*?

The Commonwealth is advertised as a goodwill outfit. We’re all friends,
right? Different nations of different races, different religions,
different history, but we can all get along, right?

So there are educational exchanges, help dealing with each other’s
problems, co-operation on international issues like public health, a
Commonwealth Games every four years (the even-numbered years in between
Olympic Games), and so on.

It doesn’t always work out so nicely. Commonwealth countries have been
known to go to war with each other — four times, in the case of [India
and
Pakistan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indo-Pakistani_wars_and_conflicts).
Cynics point out that there’s an obvious financial angle: poor countries
benefiting from association with rich countries.

And then, the Commonwealth makes lots of busy work for the British
monarch and his or her family. He — it’s currently King Charles III —
need never be bored. He can always arrange a state visit to Sri Lanka,
Tanzania, or Fiji: honor guards, banquets, tour of the Presidential
Palace … what’s not to like? He probably has to deliver some kind of aid
package, but that’s easily arranged.

It’s all a bit lackluster compared with the glory days of Empire,
though. That residual glitter of monarchy in fact serves mainly to steer
British minds for a while away from the unhappy truth that their country
is no longer of much consequence.

Sure, the national story is an amazing one. The people of some damp,
foggy islands in the eastern Atlantic somehow spread their language
around the entire globe, to have it spoken on tiny Pacific islands and
on the frozen mountains of northwest Canada — even, if only very
briefly, on the surface of the Moon.

Might Britain be a happier place today if she had never been great? If
she’d just stayed on those foggy islands and left the rest of the world
alone?

Or suppose she’d quit the Empire business all at once, after World War
Two, and totally retreated into small-nationhood, minding her own
business all through the second half of that century and developing her
own quirky national personality, like Koreans or Hungarians? I sometimes
wonder.

Back in 2014 I went a bit further than wondering. I wrote a little
alternate-history speculation about how the British Isles might have
turned out if they had become Soviet satellites in 1951, like the East
Europeans. I’ll read you the closing
paragraph. [Quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/NationalQuestion/occupation.html):

Following the fall of the Soviet régime, the British, fortified by
returned émigrés — most notably Princess Elizabeth — quickly found their
feet, emerging in the early 21st century as a major economic and
cultural power. It is amusing to speculate how things might have turned
out if the islands had kept their independence from 1951 to 1991. Would
they, like the free Western nations, have opened their borders to waves
of unassimilable Third Worlders, destroying social harmony and reducing
their historic populations to [foreigners in the lands their fathers had
fought
for](https://www.amren.com/news/2013/01/i-feel-like-a-stranger-where-i-live/)?
We shall never know …

End quote.

But then, of course, Britain’s monarch wouldn’t have had the
Commonwealth to dress up for.

**04 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  Long, long ago, even before there was such a thing as Radio
Derb, I posted a column at *National Review* headed “Necessary But
Impossible.” In it I listed ten things that I thought came under that
heading: necessary but, for political or social reasons, not possible.

Number nine of my ten things was: Grant independence to Puerto Rico.
Here’s what I
said, [quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Culture/necessarybutimpossible.html):

Who wants Puerto Rico? Well, obviously the Puerto Ricans do. It’s their
place. Not “their country” because it isn’t a country. It’s a
“commonwealth,” which is a fancy way of saying it’s a US colony.

What are we doing in the colony business? Isn’t this a free republic?
Didn’t we get started in the first place as an anti-colonial enterprise?

We can’t offer Puerto Rico statehood because they have nothing in common
with us, not even a language. (And, oh, also because any Senator or
Representative who voted for such a measure would be lynched on return
to his home district.)

What’s that you say? — Puerto Ricans have fought bravely in our
country’s wars? Great! Let’s give U.S. citizenship to those who have
done so! God bless them! For the rest — give them back their country.

End quote.

With all President Trump’s talk about annexing Greenland or Canada, the
topic of *de*-annexing Puerto Rico — that is, of giving the place
independence — is in the air. It’s not clear that this is a thing the
President could do by Executive Order; it probably needs approval from
Congress.

Puerto Rican independence activist Javier Hernandez has actually drafted
a proposed executive order for the President to look at, and sent a memo
arguing for Puerto Rican independence to 30 White House and Cabinet
offices as well as to several Republican and Democrat lawmakers.

I took that from [a March 13th report at *Daily Mail
Online*](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14491929/man-trump-free-puerto-rico-javier-hernandez.html).
The whole report is rather long; I’ll leave you to read it for yourself.
I don’t know what the odds are that anything will come of it, but it’s
nice to see the issue being aired.

*Item*:  Earlier this week, in acknowledgment of St. Patrick’s Day
coming up, President Trump played host in the White House to the Irish
Prime Minister Micheal Martin.

No, if you are reading: I haven’t mis-spelled that. In Irish the “e”
comes before the “a.” If you are listening, though, I almost
certainly *have* mis-pronounced it. I have never found enough room in my
head to master *both* [Analytic Number
Theory](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Books/Prime/page.html) *and* Irish
pronunciation.

The two leaders seem not to have found much of consequence to talk
about. The main focus of the news stories was on [the socks that our
Vice President J.D. Vance
wore](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/VanceSocks.jpg) for
the occasion: cream-colored and decorated with shamrocks in, of course,
green.

*Item*:  I have been arguing for years that, and here I can just quote
from myself — this was May 17th last
year — [quote](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/2024-05-17.html#04):

Higher education is a precious national resource. Our own citizens
should have first call on it. No institution of higher education
registered as such with state or federal government should have a
student body more than five percent non-citizen. Wait: five percent? How
about *two* percent?

End quote.

Now, reading about this Hamas supporter being arrested by ICE, I learn
that [over *half* of Columbia University’s
enrollment](https://x.com/charliekirk11/status/1899856148397981957) is
made up of foreign students.

I want to revise my earlier suggestion. Two percent? How
about *one* percent?

*Item*:  Back there a way I referenced George Orwell, in *Nineteen
Eighty-Four*, observing that it is women who are the shrillest
ideologues. Here I need to give you the full Orwell
quote. [Quote](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/10366332-it-was-always-the-women-and-above-all-the-young):

It was always the women, and above all the young ones, who were the most
bigoted adherents of the Party, the swallowers of slogans, the amateur
spies and nosers-out of unorthodoxy.

End quote.

In support of that remark, I offer you 23-year-old Rachel Zegler. Ms
Zegler is a movie actress. Her latest role is as Snow White in Disney’s
new live-action remake of the movie with that name, which is scheduled
to be in theaters March 21st.

Ms. Zegler is as woke as it’s possible to be. [She signs off her
emails](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14494693/woke-snow-white-rachel-zegler-controversy-disney-damage-control.html) with
“Free Palestine!” She wouldn’t sing the song “Some Day My Prince Will
Come” from the original 1937 movie because, she says, she doesn’t need a
man.

Disney’s been pushing DEI initiatives for years, [adding content
warnings](https://variety.com/2020/film/news/disney-plus-dumbo-peter-pan-content-warning-1234806732/) to
the streaming versions of their classic movies
like *Fantasia* and *Peter Pan*, but Ms. Zegler seems to be too much
even for them. The movie’s European premiere was held at a remote castle
in Spain, with no reporters invited.

Starting to read the news stories about this fuss, I found myself
marveling that a movie with the title *Snow White* could even be made
nowadays. If the heroine was black, of course they might get away with
it; but Ms. Zegler looks totally white in the pictures I saw. Reading
deeper, however, I learned that she identifies as Latina; her mother
comes from Colombia. So I guess that’s all right, then …

**05 — Signoff**.     That’s all, ladies and gents. Thank you for your
time and attention, and please allow me to remind you, as is my custom,
that you can support the VDARE Foundation by subscribing to [Peter
Brimelow’s Substack account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/), or with a
check to the Foundation itself at P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”,
CT 06759; and you can support me personally by earmarking that check
with my name, or by any of the other options spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). You can also
support me *indirectly* by subscribing to that excellent monthly
magazine [*Chronicles*](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/chroniclesmagazine.org/),
to which I am now a regular contributor. Thank you!

For signoff music, something Irish of course. This is an old favorite of
my younger years, and as Irish as it could possibly be. If you can sit
all the way through it without moving, your powers of physical
self-control are supernatural.

There will be more from Radio Derb next week
