---
title: "The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Car"
date: "2025-03-27T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-27T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Culture
  - Economics
  - Politics
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33830"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33830"
---

Last week the Chinese announced what could be a great leap forward in
electric car technology when the Chinese firm BYD announced a
five-minute charger. They
[claim](https://www.zerohedge.com/technology/five-things-know-byds-5-minute-ev-chargers-juice-next-week)
their new technology, it is not just a charger but a battery system as
well, will allow a driver to get a 250-mile charge in just five minutes.
No one knows if this is true, as Chinese companies are almost as
dishonest as American media. Even if it is an exaggeration, it could
still be a big deal.

The reason this is viewed as a potential game changer is that it is
assumed that the main obstacle to widespread adoption of EV’s is the
long recharge. It is unreasonable to expect people to take an hour to
recharge when on a road trip. Even a thirty-minute recharge time is
unappealing. Decades of needing just a few minutes to fill the tank have
conditioned people to expect it. Getting EV technology to this point,
therefore, is assumed to be the final boss in the game.

That is not true, but the faithful believe it. The main problem with
EV’s is that they do not solve a problem. They are a solution in search
of problem and so far, the problems they claim to solve have proven to
be either nonsense or grotesque boondoggles executed by the worst people
in society. Making the [weather
potato](https://imgs.search.brave.com/Tvpc8OdyhpUF07iNqYuhXoVUcOZlsS-XPK4LbeN4P04/rs:fit:860:0:0:0/g:ce/aHR0cHM6Ly9tZWRp/YS5nZXR0eWltYWdl/cy5jb20vaWQvMTUw/NDMzMjE2OS9waG90/by9reWl2LXVrcmFp/bmUtanVuZS0yOS1z/d2VkaXNoLWNsaW1h/dGUtYWN0aXZpc3Qt/Z3JldGEtdGh1bmJl/cmctdGFrZXMtcGFy/dC1pbi1hLXByZXNz/LmpwZz9zPTYxMng2/MTImdz0wJms9MjAm/Yz1rNlI1RnpTbXpE/b2dDaEk2UERmSkIt/Q19sOTU0dDFmVWVq/RUxYZU5JVmJZPQ)
happy is not motivating anyone to buy an electric car, especially when
the total cost of ownership remains significantly higher than
conventional vehicles.

The electric car is a lot like the electric book in that the engineering
challenges somehow blind the proponents to the central problem.
Technology is not an end in itself, but a means to an end. Electronic
messaging has displaced written letters because the former is better,
cheaper, and faster than the latter. If email came with a small risk of
electrocution, we would still be writing letters. If every email cost a
dollar to send, there would be no such thing as email.

That was the problem with eBooks. They were not better in any way that
mattered to people, and they were not cheaper. There were some
advantages, like speed of acquisition and the availability of obscure
texts. You could also load up on out of copyright material at a
pittance. The trouble is not many people need ready access to Summa
Theologica, so these advantages made little difference. It is why the
old-fashioned book remains dominant.

The same problem plagues the electric car. For ninety percent of
drivers, the car is a practical way to move humans from one place to
another. Current technology does that as well as anyone could need.
Therefore, the new technology is simply trying to match what the old
technology does. Outside of enthusiast and technologists, the electric
car will always be pointless. Add in the expense and it becomes an
expensive solution to a cheaply solved problem.

There are other reasons why the electric car will remain a niche item.
The biggest is the cost, which can never be overcome. The cost of
powering an electric car is about three times that of powering a normal
car. This is despite the fact that we subsidize electricity in America,
and we artificially increase the price of gas and diesel. Strip away the
policy choices and electric cars have no market. Natural gas-powered
cars would have far more promise as an alternative.

Then there is the cost of production and disposal. For generations old
cars have been sent to the scrap yard to be stripped for parts and
recycled. We have become amazingly good at recycling our cars. Electric
vehicles require special handling due to the batteries. Of course, the
cost of production is much higher, even with government subsidies all
along the way. Then there is the added cost to the power grid that comes
in once adoption reaches a certain point.

Enthusiasts insist that all of this is wrong or can be addressed, but
the point here is that the charge time is the least of their worries. If
the EV was better, faster, and cheaper than regular cars, the charge
time would be ignored. The truth is they are not better in any important
ways, they are certainly not cheaper. The electric car is certainly
faster, but outside the enthusiast niche, this does not matter and what
we see is that it does not matter to the sports car enthusiast either.

Now, of course, there is a new problem. The electric car is not cool. It
was never really a cool car, but the beautiful people embraced the idea,
so that provided the necessary social proof for upper-middle-class white
people. The trend setters are now vandalizing Tesla’s, so the cool
factor is gone. In fairness, the novelty was wearing off before the
kooks took aim at Elon Musk, but now the coolness is gone. The
ridiculous looking cyber truck did not help either.

The bigger issue may be a social one. Cars in general, but electric
cars, in particular, make the “owner” into a serf. Fixing your own car
is now an expensive proposition, meaning you need to depend on the
repair system. This is deliberate. Car dealerships make more profit from
the repair of cars than the sale of them, so the game is to make the
owner dependent on the dealer. Electric cars are the worst for this as
they are terrifyingly dangerous to repair.

The most terrifying part is you may not even own the car. You pay for it
and have the title, but features are increasingly dependent on the
manufacture agreeing with your lifestyle and political choices. Tesla
can disable your car remotely. Other car makers are going down this same
path. Soon, features like heated seats will be software as a service,
meaning you must get permission to use them. The electric car is the
face of this dystopian future of man and machine.

None of this means the electric car is dead. There is a place for the
technology, just as there is a niche for eBooks. The developers churning
out corporate housing projects could install fast charging stations for
the soulless automatons who move into these God-forsaken eyesores. Urban
areas could be a good use for electric microcars that only go short
distances. Young people could also benefit from cars that can be speed
limited and tracked at all times.

In the end, the electric car is going to follow the path of other clever
engineering projects in that its primary benefit is secondary. The quest
for the electric car has made batteries much better. The hunt for new
features to justify the cost premium has led to better electronics,
information displays and safety features. The dangers of disposal have
been a good lesson in reality. The cars themselves may be niche items,
but the industry will have benefitted from the exercise.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
