---
title: "Back To Work"
date: "2025-04-10T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-10T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33903"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33903"
---

Warren Buffet famously said, “Only when the tide goes out do you
discover who’s been swimming naked.” The point of this metaphor is that
in economic downturns you learn who has been taking excessive risks.
Another way of putting it is that in easy times, everyone can be a hero
or a genius. This has been the case for the American financial system
for over thirty years. As long as credit money kept expanding, everyone
had a chance to look like a financial genius.

This explains the prevalence of people in the financial media who
somehow get everything wrong but maintain their status as experts. The
most notable of this sort is Jim Cramer who has made a career out of
being outlandishly wrong. Paul Krugman wrote a column for years about
the economy, despite never being right about it. These are two famous
examples, but the commentariat is littered with these types. As long as
the arrow kept going up, being wrong was good money.

The trouble is that the entire financial industry is built on this
premise. Being wrong comes with no penalty, because wrongness rarely
comes with a cost. Sure, the MegaBrain Capital Fund might not perform as
well as random guessing, but because the arrow always goes up, even the
bad bets pay off. This also means anyone spouting random gibberish can
present himself as an expert. Tens of thousands of mortgage payments,
maybe hundreds of thousands, rest on this assumption.

The main reason for this, of course, is the United States has been both
the global mint and the global bank since the 1980’s. You can see it in
the markets. From 1985 to the present, the DJIA has increased by about
nine percent per year. That includes the many busts that were
backstopped by the global bank. From 1965 to 1985 the markets suffered a
long bear market, after the long twenty-year bull market that kicked off
after the end of the Second World War.

Another way to think about it is the American stock market boomed by
about ten percent per year when the rest of the world was in rubble.
Europe was literally in rubble after the war. Much of it was controlled
by communists. China was a feudal, agrarian society trying to implement
Marxist-Leninism. Japan only stopped glowing after that long bull market
ended. In other words, the American economy and the equities markets had
a great run when there was no global competition.

Somehow, as if by magic, equities had a run like the post war decades,
despite the hollowing out of the economy. The run has also been longer.
The twenty-year post-war boom ran out of steam even though Asia was not
online yet, just because Europe was starting to recover. We have
experienced a forty-year run while at the same time the American economy
transitioned from inventing things and making them to driving each other
around in Ubers.

It turns out that if the mint can make as much money as it likes, being
the only mint on earth anyone values, and they give what they mint to
the only banking system anyone values, the people in this system can do
no wrong. For decades it has been like being at a casino with an endless
line of credit. Not only that, but the dealers would also occasionally
give you some insider information on the decks. It is not hard to look
like a genius when you are playing with house money.

That world is coming to an end. The shock therapy we are seeing is not
just a bluff to get better tariff deals. It is in anticipation of the
fact that the world is shifting from where the dollar dominates all
global trade to one where local currency arrangements will often be
preferred over the dollar. If you want to buy from China, it will mean
doing so in their currency, not dollars. The same is true for other
major trading countries. The Russians have been the proof of concept for
this approach.

This does not mean the dollar collapses or people revert to carrying
sacks of gold while riding to town on their donkey. The primitive use of
shiny bits of metal as currency only comes back if we enter a dark age.
What is happening instead is a change in how the world views dollars and
more importantly, dollar denominated debt. That means the days of
unlimited credit money is coming to a close. The dollar and dollar
denominated debt will reconnect with the American economy.

This is all bad news for the flim-flam men who dominate the financial
services industry as it means being wrong once again comes with risk.
The bad bets from MegaBrain Capital Fund no longer just mean a lower
return. Those bad bets now put the firm in jeopardy and get the smart
guys fired for making those bad bets. Swimming naked will now come with
the risk of the tide going out and staying out. Like the fox in the hen
house, risk is returning to the money game.

What is about to happen to the financial sector is like what we see
happening with the government sector. The tens of thousands of people
who do not do anything necessary will be let go, and that includes the
experts in the media. In a world where risk is real, no one will
tolerate a television clown dispensing bad advice, unless he is in a
fright wig and wearing floppy red shoes. The clowns will back in the
circus while the serious men do the serious work.

This is the end of America’s long holiday from reality. Playing make
believe in government, finance or the media is no longer possible.
Making money will not be about finding clever ways to get that sweet
sweet credit money, but about inventing things, improving things and
making things. That will not leave a lot of room for diversity experts
or chattering skulls. Those people can be <a
href="https://thehill.com/business/5236250-trump-tariffs-economic-recovery/"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">put to work</a> in the new factories and
repair shops, perhaps sweeping the floors.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
