---
title: "The War On The Shadows"
date: "2025-01-29T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-29T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Politics
  - Trump
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33498"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33498"
---

One of the early features of Trump 2.0 is that it is nothing like the
first version of Trump and nothing like what his adversaries imagined.
Despite the evidence that this version of Trump would be different, his
antagonists inside and outside the regime were certain he was the guy
they imagined. Therefore, his victory was a shock, but they were sure
what worked the first time around would work again. The weird silence
from regime outposts is due to having been wrong yet again.

This version of Trump is a very different thing from the original
version. We are seeing this in the realm of foreign policy where Trump
2.0 has been executing a plan rather than doing battle with the hydra
that is the foreign policy community. It turns out that his refusal to
have any dealings with the foreign policy community as a candidate, and
his decision not to use government resources for the transition, has
provided him with the element of surprise upon taking office.

You see that with his initial appointments. Marco Rubio was an out of
the blue pick for the State Department. It seems to have been a shock to
Rubio as well. Pete Hegseth at the Pentagon is another bolt from the
blue. In the case of Rubio, he is an easily controlled lieutenant
running an agency in need of radical reform. Hegseth comes to the job
with his own radical ideas about reforming the Pentagon. The
semi-permanent staff at the top of both agencies are now in a crisis.

Then you have Trump’s peculiar moves regarding the Ukraine war. He
appoints Keith Kellogg as his personal envoy on the issue, but Kellogg
is in no big hurry to get the ball rolling on Project Ukraine. He
initially set up a tour of Europe and meetings with Kiev but then
cancelled all of it. Trump has answered some questions about the Ukraine
war but has not had any discussions with Europe about it. In fact, no
one in the Trump administration has talked to the Europeans about the
war.

At the same time, there is a purge underway of certain parts of the
foreign policy establishment with some novel tools. For starters, Trump
is cleaning house of neocons by assigning them to new positions intended
to encourage their departure. This is an old corporate trick. He has
frozen spending on just about everything, pending a review of how the
money is being spent. Since all of government exists to spend money, it
has thrown the usual suspects into a panic.

What this move is aimed at is the shadow foreign policy community that
exists outside of government but is funded by government. These are the
think tanks and research shops that live off government grants. They are
full of former government officials and future government officials.
Their job is to prevent whoever is in the White House from changing the
direction of foreign policy. It is in the offices of these places that
his first impeachment was organized.

These covens of mischief that were prepared to do their old tricks now
find themselves in a crisis as their income is frozen and under
scrutiny, while at the same time their friends and collaborators are
being forced out of government. It is hard to plot the next regime
change operation against Trump when you are struggling to make payroll,
which is the point of this funding freeze. It is also a clear signal
that Trump 2.0 is prepared to deal with these people.

This extends to the thicket of NGO’s, charities and think tanks that
operate internationally, in coordination with the shadow government.
Trump had Rubio freeze all work at these operations by freezing their
money. The people who make regime change possible through their color
revolution schemes are now starved of cash. If they cannot pay
“independent media” and “opposition leaders” then those entities cannot
<a href="https://x.com/BalazsOrban_HU/status/1884541579752272090"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">organize</a> “spontaneous” rallies
against the government.

What Trump 2.0 is doing is attacking the vast shadow government that has
evolved to be resistant to electoral politics. The Kagan family, for
example, have plied their trade regardless of who is in the White House.
They were able to do this because so much of what ends up as a foreign
policy item on the president’s agenda is created by entities operating
outside of government. Victoria did not retire when she quit the State
Department. She continues her
<a href="https://www.ned.org/experts/victoria-nuland/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">work</a> in the shadow government.

Foreign policy is just one example. The chaos of immigration is due in
large part to the vast network of not-for-profit entities that make
millions facilitating the wholesale abrogation of immigration laws.
These entities survive on grants from the government, much in the same
way we see with foreign policy. The freeze and review of these programs
is part of bringing them to heel. When J.D. Vance mentioned Catholic
Charities role in immigration, it was a deliberate warning.

This is why the media response to Trump 2.0 has been so weird. Much of
what they produce is handed to them by this thicket of extra-government
entities who shape the media narratives around public policy. That extra
government ecosystem now finds itself under direct assault by a new
administration that did its homework and is now executing a plan of
attack on that ecosystem. Compounding it is the fact that the donor
class seems to be backing the Trump plan.

What has happened over the last several decades is that the official
government of the United States was enveloped by this vast collection of
extra-government entities that produce good jobs at good wages for the
managerial elite. Since the number of government posts is small,
relative to the number of credentialed people who think they deserve
them, this network of entities has grown to serve an ever-growing
collection of people who cycle in and out of government.

Since these people not only think they deserve the plumb assignments,
but they think they know better than the voters and their politicians,
the result has been a slow shifting of policy outside of official
government into this shadow government. Foreign policy is most obvious,
but this process has happened everywhere. No one can say who banned
normal light bulbs, for example, because the policy bubbled up from the
network of extra-government entities of environmentalism.

It remains to be seen if the Trump effort to defang this shadow
government will succeed, but it helps that he has support from economic
elites. The shadow government does not live only on government handouts.
It also thrives by selling indulgences to powerful people and business
sectors. Having friends in the shadow government is better than having
friends in politics, because politicians come and go, but the shadow
government is permanent.

One reason for the swing to the side of Trump by the economic elites
could be that they have grown frustrated with this arrangement. People
who think they are smarter than the voters are going to think they are
smarter than the donors. Like a business run into the ground by
management, the large shareholders are now stepping in with the support
of the small shareholders, to clear out old management. Trump is like
the old greenmailers; except this time the target is Washington.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
