---
title: "No Peace"
date: "2025-04-01T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-01T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33852"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33852"
---

After a flurry of peace talks in Saudi Arabia, the Trump peace
initiative regarding the war in Ukraine seems to have run out of steam.
The last round of talks stalled over the conditions required to create a
Black Sea ceasefire. The Russians laid out the conditions they would
require, the conditions they agreed to in 2022 under the Black Sea grain
deal. Ukraine flatly rejected those terms this time. The Europeans have
also made clear that they will never agree to peace.

After Ukraine and the EU rejected the terms, Putin said some things that
got little note in the West but were clearly a signal to the Trump
administration. The first was at a meeting of Russian industrialists
where Putin told them that despite talks with Washington, they should
not expect the end of sanctions. The new world order, so to speak, is
one in which the Russian economy will operate independently of the West
and within the framework of BRICS.

That was a clear signal to the Trump people that ending sanctions was
not a carrot and new sanctions are not a stick. The Russians have moved
on from the old model where their economy was connected to the Western
model. Despite the last three years, the West remains convinced that
sanctions are working, and that Russia desperately wants back into the
Western economic model. Until the Trump administration sees the folly in
this, negotiations with Russia will go nowhere.

Another thing Putin said was in response to a question at a public event
about the Trump effort to get a ceasefire. Putin said there will not be
a Minsk 3. This is a reference to prior deals with the West over
Ukraine. In Minsk 1 and Minsk 2, the Russians agreed to get trapped
Western advisors in the war zone free of the Donbass militias in
exchange for a peace deal that never materialized. In both cases, the
West just poured more weapons into Ukraine.

This is a very sore subject for Russians. They see these prior deals as
efforts to trick and humiliate them. When Trump publicly asked Putin to
let the trapped Ukrainian troops in Kursk escape, it set off alarm bells
in Moscow. It looked like the same old tricks from the Western
tricksters. That is the reason Putin made a point of saying there will
never be a Minsk 3. He was telling the Russian public and the Russian
elite that he will not be fooled a third time.

That has led to two other things Putin said last week. One is he said
the Russian army is ready to finish off the Ukrainian army. That is a
bold statement, out of character for Putin. He has been warning of a
five- or ten-year war since the West cancelled the Istanbul agreements.
To now talk about a quick end of the war suggests that something big is
on the drawing board. It could also mean the Ukrainian army is in far
worse shape than is being reported.

This comment about the end of the war came with a comment about putting
Ukraine into what amounts to receivership. Putin suggested that the
post-war process would start with the removal of the Kiev government and
put the administration of the country into the hands of a UN group. This
caused Trump to
<a href="https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1906337060698399090"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">call</a> NBC’s Manjaw Crazyeyes and rant
about being “pissed off” at Putin. He said he is planning to apply new
sanctions to Russia in response to these statements.

What all of this points to is that the Trump peace initiative is dead.
The Russians were willing to listen, but now that it is clear that Trump
has no leverage over Ukraine or Europe, there is no point in continuing
the charade. The war in Ukraine will end by military means and then
maybe there can be a negotiated settlement. That was the point Putin was
making last week. Whether or not the Trump administration understands
this is unknown.

The Pentagon, on the other hand, at least the permanent elements,
independent of the administration, does get this. They
<a href="https://archive.is/Fdwq3" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">wrote</a> a long, mendacious thriller for the New York
Times where they blame the failure of Project Ukraine on the Ukrainians
and to a lesser extent the Trump administration. It is a long post worth
reading for no other reason than it is a great example of narrative
fantasy. It is written like a spy thriller because it is mostly
self-serving fiction.

If you want to know why Western politicians seem to be so clueless about
so much, it is because they rely on the storytellers called the media
for their version of reality. All over Washington, staffers for elected
officials read that Times story, shocked to learn that the American
military has been running the war from the start. Normal people have
known this since day one because the internet exists and people use it,
but elected officials get their reality from the media.

The main point of that work of fiction is to make clear that the Ukraine
failure was not the fault of the Military Industrial Complex. All the
weapons were, in fact, wonder weapons that totally crushed those
primitive Russians. NATO tactics were the best and completely baffled
those drunken Russkies. The people who brought you the F-35 want to make
clear that when the Russian flag is in Maidan Square, it was the fault
of the people who refused to let the American military win the war.

As an aside, if you can get past the self-serving fiction, the article
reveals just how close we were to extinction. There were people willing
to go all in on attacking Russia, which would have provoked a nuclear
retaliation. Unsaid, but implied, is that there were people willing to
go nuclear, maybe even preemptively. If the Trump administration is
serious about changing foreign policy, a top priority must be hunting
down those people and permanently removing them from society.

Putting that aside, what all of this tells us is that there will be no
negotiated settlement to the Ukraine war, at least not until things on
the battlefield change. Perhaps when the Ukrainian army begins to break
in a major way, reality will get over the media firewall into the brains
of the political classes in the West. Maybe the Trump administration
understands this, maybe not. It does not matter because they are not in
control of events, so they can only stand by and watch.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
