---
title: "Masters And Slaves"
date: "2025-03-24T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-24T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33812"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33812"
---

**Note \#1:** Behind the green door, there is a post about why deporting
anti-Israel protestors is a good start, a post about the dangers of the
Ukraine tarpit, and the Sunday podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>. I was also on the J. Burden show last week and
you can listen
<a href="https://youtu.be/Fmpo-inlt2Y?si=6spRHys35cbUuyg4"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Note \#2:** Since we are getting signs of spring, it means it will not
be long before it is hot, which means t-shirt weather. Just in time for
t-shirt season, we have a new shirt for **The Occidental Club**, which
you can buy <a href="https://theoccidentalclub.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the stranger things about the first months of the Trump
administration has been the reaction of Europe to his peace initiatives.
The European “leaders” are, on the one hand, horrified by his peace
push, and on the other hand they have rallied themselves to various
schemes to stop them. The latest scheme is to create a peacekeeping
force that they will insert into Ukraine, something the Russians have
repeatedly said is a deal breaker and perhaps even an act of war.

On the surface this looks insane. There are about twenty million
Ukrainian refugees in Europe with more trickling in daily. Social
welfare rolls are now littered with refugees, who do not speak the local
language, so they cannot work. Of course, the EU has been shipping
Ukraine billions of Euros plus all its military gear. The war has become
another factor eroding social trust and most importantly, trust in the
political elite that insists the war must go on forever.

None of this makes any sense until you think about what it means to be
in the European political elite in 2025. It means a lifetime of having
been very good at winning favor with America or winning favor with the
politicians close to America. The dominance of the United States since
the war, but especially since the end of the Cold War, has turned the
European elite into a slave class. They are the house slaves, who defend
the master’s prerogatives against the field slaves.

The surest way to getting yourself exiled in European politics is to
speak poorly of the Americans in favor of European interests. Even now,
when they all agree Trump is a big meanie, they are obsessed with
getting his attention in such a way that it reasserts their position as
the loyal house slave. With respect to Ukraine, they feel like they have
been sent out of the room as the master talks to another master. They
all have their ear to the door, hoping to hear what is being said.

What we are seeing is the result of long subjugation. When one people
come to dominate another people, the subjugated will inevitably look to
survive and that means finding leaders who are good at currying favor
with the master. After the war, Europe was a mess and needed the United
States to stave off communism and rebuild the economy of Europe. After
the Cold War, the United States was the lone superpower, and Europe
became its chief flunky.

It is why there will be no European Donald Trump anytime soon. The idea
of such a character terrifies the typical European, who has been
conditioned since birth to look up to the house slave. Since a Donald
Trump like figure must come from the field slave population, this sort
of figure is not just feared by the European house slave population but
despised by the field slaves of Europe. They would rather been hacked to
death by a machete wielding African than taste freedom.

This also explains the absurdity of the European political class. It is
a freak show of carnival acts rather than people with some idea how the
world works. You see the same thing in the United States among the black
population. Every black congressional district has a ridiculous person
as the representative. The newest version is Jasmine Crockett, a
representative from Houston, who had to learn how to sound like a ghetto
queen in order to rise up the ranks.

The reason Bernardine Dohrn and Bill Ayers had to hire the actor Barry
Soetoro to play Barak Obama was that the black community is not able to
produce such a figure, so they had to manufacture one. The reason Obama
has so quickly disappeared from the conversation is that he was always
just an actor playing a role. The show ended and he left the stage. Like
a typecast actor, he can only play this role and no one has much
interest in the character, so he has sunk into obscurity.

We seem to be seeing something similar with other minority communities
in the United States, despite the demographic changes. Boston Mayor
Michelle Wu is a fast-rising Asian politician, but she is also an Asian
version of Maxine Waters. The reason anyone knows her name is she is
willing to perform in front of the cameras, aping the most absurd
politics of upper middle-class white people. She is the East Asian
version of the Sambo, dancing for her primarily white audience.

A main difference between the minority populations in America and Europe
is the United States is actively trying to set Europe free. If Trump
could do it, he would leave Europe entirely but he will settle for a
reduced role. No one is seriously thinking about creating a black
homeland or Asian homeland in America. The Trump administration actively
talks about Europe standing on its own two feet again. This is why the
current European elite is in such a panic. They do not want to leave the
master’s house.

The question with regards to Europe is can it regain itself and do so in
a way that does not require the great powers to supervise it? The
glimmer of hope is the nationalist parties emerging, but they are often
as clownish as the establishment. That or they exist to prevent an
alternative elite emerging. Nigel Farage is an entertaining political
clown whose main role is to prevent any sort of organized resistance to
the nation-wrecking policies of the UK political class.

The answer may be that Europe will have to go through a dark age, so to
speak, before it can produce a genuine alternative elite. Given the
current demographic trends, what would emerge would be non-European.
Alternatively, the nationalist movements gain power and simply ruin the
existing political elite and their slave mentality. There is a period of
chaos, like the end of communism in Russia, that provides the conditions
for a new elite to emerges to rule Europe.

What we see in Europe and America is a good example of how success sets
the conditions for decline. Conquering people makes them into dependents
and eventually, their dependency becomes too much to carry. The United
States is about to cut the Europeans loose for this reason. What
suffering comes from the newly liberated house slaves of Europe will
seem unfair to them, but three generations of dependency are the cause,
not their impending liberation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
