---
title: "Artificial Eternity"
date: "2025-01-23T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-23T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Science & Tech
  - Weird Stuff
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33471"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33471"
---

One of the clarifying things about Trump’s second term is that we are
seeing the reality of politics on display. He made deals for support and
right away he is making good on those deals. One of those deals was with
Silicon Valley with regards to Artificial Intelligence, which they think
is the next revolution. Trump is pledging billions for something like a
Manhattan Project to make AI real.
<a href="https://x.com/IterIntellectus/status/1881838648683122836"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Here</a> is Sam Altman explaining why
this is the greatest thing ever.

Lost in most of the AI debate is something Altman said in that clip,
“Immortality is not too far ahead.” That is an interesting selling
point, as it assumes that everyone wants to live forever, but it is not
the first time this has come up with the tech bros. Once Silicon Valley
was awash in billions, they started investing some of it in life
extension technology with the hope of conquering death. Ray Kurzweil has
made a nice living selling life-extension ideas to the tech bros.

It is fair to say that conquering death has been an obsession with
Silicon Valley since the great boom of the 1990’s started. Perhaps there
is some natural link between extending human ability through technology
and extending life with it. On the one hand, solving the complex
mathematical puzzles that put the stock of human knowledge at your
fingertips leads to hubris. On the other hand, that same hubris can
easily lead to a view of life as nothing more than complex math puzzles.

Much of what lies behind the synopticon that Silicon Valley has rolled
out over the last decades is the assumption that life is not terribly
complicated because humans are relatively simple in their actions.
Facebook and Google easily roll up our lives into easy-to-use data sets,
so marketers can nudge us into buying their products. The fact that this
strategy does not work is ignored. They have come to believe that the
vast network of machines is controlling human behavior.

That aside, conquering death is not new to this age. Christianity is all
about conquering death and living forever in bliss. That is the main
point of Christianity, at least from the marketing point of view. If you
live an ethical life, when you die and your life is put in the scales,
you will gain access to heaven, which is everlasting life. John 3:16
tells us, “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten
Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have
everlasting life”

The Christians were not the first to think this way. In fact, it was
most likely borrowed from Zoroastrianism, which held that heaven was one
option for your soul once it left your body and crossed Bridge of
Judgment. Of course, the concept of reincarnation has been with us since
forever probably. The soul reentering the material world in the body of
another human or as another species is a form of conquering death. The
soul is eternal, so you never truly die.

In folk religions without a complex system of ethics tied to their
deity, conquering death was still an important topic. The ancient heroes
fought to be remembered after they had fallen in battle. Valhalla, which
was reworked by early Christians into a warrior heaven, was originally
just a resting place for warriors, until they poured out to fight
alongside Odin against the jötnar during Ragnarök. Conquering death was
to live so you could take part in the final scene of existence.

Simply being remembered was a form of conquering death. Greek mythology
is a great example of this. To be remembered was the point of life. The
great heroes of the long-forgotten past are proof that a man can outlive
his people. Troy, for example, was long gone by the time of Homer, but
the men of Troy and those who defeated them, lived on long after Troy
was forgotten. Our modern cemeteries still reflect this ancient urge to
be remembered and thus conquer death.

in the modern age, men who aspire to greatness are not satisfied with
having their memory carved on a rock. They will not blink their last
blink with the knowledge that they will live forever at the foot of God.
Both require a connection to a people who will maintain the rock or pray
for your soul. Instead, they hope the machines with which they spend so
much of their lives will save them from rotting away in a field or being
incinerated in a crematorium.

Despite their brilliance, they not only think little about their
obsession with immortality, but they never wonder if it is what they
want. To this point, people have understood that living even a very long
time comes with punishments. Our fiction is full of examples of men who
lived too long. Even in good health, their psyche suffers from having
lived beyond the natural limit. We have always had a sense that who we
are is tied to the brevity of our time on this world.

Artificial Intelligence may help mitigate diseases like cancer, but at
this stage it is mostly used for creating clever memes. The walls that
contain AI right now, the limits of human knowledge, will probably prove
impenetrable. It will never be able to go beyond what we know but merely
be faster at accessing and applying it. That will have its uses but will
fall far short of the robot future. Until we unriddle what makes human
consciousness possible, AI will remain a fantasy.

Nature, of nature’s God, has a sense of humor, so the most likely result
of AI is better ways to kill one another. We already see that with the
war in Ukraine where AI powered drones hunt for men and equipment. This
is another thing the present quest for eternal life shares with the past
quests. The end result will inevitably require death, as without death,
life is not possible. Living is not merely the absence of death but the
struggle against death. Artificial Intelligence cannot do that for us.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
