---
title: "The Great Transition"
date: "2025-04-07T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-04-07T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Economics
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33890"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33890"
---

**Note:** Behind the green door, there is a post about an old post I did
on Vladimir Putin as the antidote to Peter the Great, a post about the
Amazon series The Bondsman, and the Sunday podcast. Subscribe
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> or
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Last week, Trump stunned the world by following through on what he has
been promising since he came down the escalator in 2015. He imposed
across-the-board tariffs on every country in the world—except Russia.
The reason Russia was excluded is that they are already sanctioned to
the maximum. The tariff knob does not go past one hundred, so they were
not on the list. Every other country was hit with a tariff, even Israel,
which should cause some people to rethink things.

This set off the Great Trump Stock Market Crash, which promises to
continue this week as the rest of the world responds to the new world
order. The old trading models no longer work, so the default fallback in
these conditions is cash. The quants were working feverishly last week
to update their models in order to find the bargains that will
inevitably be sitting there, waiting for the lucky. The smart money
thinks the floor is a twenty percent correction, followed by stability.

The yesterday men and the crazies are sure this is the Great Depression,
because their history of the world starts in the 1930s. It is a stylized
history, such that every modern event can be jammed into the 1930s, the
1960s, or the 1980s. Since they are sure Trump is secretly Hitler, this
must be the 1930s—even though we have witnessed many stock market
corrections in the last thirty years. The COVID crash, the mortgage
bubble, and the dot-com bubble are easy examples.

In reality, what we are seeing is the long-overdue return to normalcy,
where American economic policy is aimed at benefiting the American
people, rather than abstract concepts from economics departments. If
Canada has tariffs on American goods, then the United States should have
tariffs on Canadian goods—unless it can be shown that the American
people benefit in some way from the imbalance. The same is true for
every other country in the world.

One of the weird things about decades of American trade policy is that
it has created the same sense of entitlement as government racial
policy. Just as nonwhites think they are entitled to be near white
people without conditions, the world thinks it has a right to access the
American market without conditions. This is most obvious in Europe,
which has taken this lopsided arrangement for granted. They have also
assumed they are entitled to American defense, while doing nothing in
return.

The logic behind this arrangement has always been nonsense—but people
love to believe in nonsense, especially their own. We see this with the
free trade crowd, who are claiming tariffs will only harm the American
people. If that were true, then the rest of the world should have been
miserable for the last thirty years. Further, if that were true, then
the rest of the world now has a chance to usher in a golden age for
their people by eliminating their tariffs instead of raising them.

The truth of the matter is that all economic policy is about
trade-offs—especially in global trade. This is why it is called trade,
rather than “free.” Having a tariff-free relationship with Canada could
make sense if the Canadian government could be trusted, as the American
and Canadian economies are so similar. The same is not true for Mexico
or Bangladesh. Trade is never just about money—it is also about culture
and the national interests of the trading countries.

Of course, what we are seeing is not really about trade so much as it is
about getting the American financial house in order. Scott Bessent, the
Treasury Secretary and architect of the Trump economic policy, has made
this clear. Normalizing American trade relations is just one arrow.
Another is the mass reorganization of government that kicked off in
January. For the first time in the life of anyone reading this, the size
and scope of government will be reduced.

Another arrow is the changes in the tax code that are slowly working
their way through both houses of Congress. The Senate passed its version
of spending and tax cuts, so now it is on to the House. What is shaping
up is a two-pronged approach: one is to put into law the cuts made by
the DOGE boys, and the other is a radical revamping of the tax code to
reflect the new economic approach. Removing taxes on tips and overtime,
for example, is part of the Senate model.

What we are seeing is the most radical alteration to the American
economic model since the 1980s. The reason for it is that the old model
is unsustainable. As Bessent pointed out, there is a limit to borrowing.
For a long time, the American model relied on creating unlimited credit
money in the banking system and massive federal borrowing. We have
reached the limits of this model. Now, that model threatens the
integrity of the American economy, so changes must be made.

More important are the changes in how we think and talk about the
economy. For the longest time, the economy has been treated as a god.
Americans were expected to tolerate anything to please it. If the
economy demanded Haitian cannibals in your town, you had to accept it.
If the economy demanded that the quality of your hand tools decline, you
just lived with it. If the economy required you to work two jobs to make
ends meet, then you did it. The economy was a remorseless god.

This sort of thinking makes sense to an alien overclass that sees the
United States as an opportunity to be exploited. It does not make sense
if the ruling elite feels a connection and obligation to the people.
Shifting from the old transactional model of economics to a
nationalistic model requires a new language. Simply pointing at a graph
that trends upward is no longer enough. The political class will now
have to possess some economic literacy.

It is too soon to know if these changes can make it through Congress.
The winners under the old exploitative model will not go quietly. No one
knows if the American public will tolerate the pain that must come with
the transition. It is not all bad news, though, so the pain may be
limited. Energy costs are falling—crude is under sixty dollars a barrel.
This could tame inflation enough for the Fed to cut rates. Low taxes and
cheap energy will go a long way toward cushioning the transition.

In the end, Bessent is correct. America cannot continue to create credit
in the financial system and borrow trillions to hire government workers.
We either have an orderly transition back to a normal economy, or we
have a disorderly transition. The name for that is collapse—and that is
vastly worse than a stock market correction. This is the reason the
economic elites are backing this move. They know that the people who
suffer the most from failure are the elites.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
