---
title: "The Escapists"
date: "2025-02-26T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-02-26T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Badder Thoughts
  - Culture
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33656"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33656"
---

An iron law of the universe is the opposite law of liberalism, which
states that whatever the left is saying, assume the opposite and you
will get close to the truth. It is not a perfect rule in that the
opposite is obvious or correct. It is just a good place to start when
trying to figure out what they are doing. Projection plays a central
role in the interior life of the progressive hive mind, so they
inevitably accuse the enemies of the hive of doing what the hive is
doing or has done.

An old example comes from the heady days of the Tea Party, which was a
genuine populist and grassroots response to the cultural revolution.
Normal, middle-class people started to organize against the Obama
administration, but also the sissies of conservatism who were hiding
under their beds at the time. Suddenly, people were turning up to
protest and fight back against the gathering madness. It was a
foreshadowing of what would come in 2016.

The response by the left was to accuse these people of being part of a
conspiracy organized by the enemies of history. Nancy Pelosi famously
said it was not a grassroots movement, but an AstroTurf movement. For
those who do not know, AstroTurf is a genericized brand name or
proprietary eponym for fake grass. Of course, what was true at the time
and true to this day is the “grassroots” support of the left was bought
and paid for by tax dollars laundered through the Blob.

It was one of those moments that revealed something about the sorts of
people who end up in left-wing social movements. They always assume that
the enemies of the hive operate as they do and will act like they would
if given the chance. It is why they were sure Trump would trample your
civil rights after he won in 2016. They knew that if they were in his
position, that is what they would do. After the color revolution that
toppled Trump and installed Biden, it is exactly what they did.

Now that Trump is back, we see the opposite rule kicking in as part of
their coping strategy and effort to organize a response. The crazies are
now free speech warriors, claiming Trump is going to start censoring
people online. The very same people who chanted “freedom of speech is
not freedom of reach” as anyone with a sober thought in their head was
evicted from Twitter are now carrying on as if they are Ann Frank,
hiding in the attic from the MAGA police.

This
[story](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/house-republicans-town-halls-blowback-trump-cuts-rcna193766)
about how a handful of zombies turned up to yell at a Congressman is
framed as a populist rebellion. These are people made angry by their
television, so they show up on command at this event to be angry. A
defining feature of these old, white progressives is they have no idea
why they are angry. The person on their television is angry, so they are
angry. They are the sort that started saying “keev” the weekend the war
in Ukraine started, as if they always said it that way.

Of course, nothing about this is on the level. That is the great lesson
of the populist rebellion that started with the Tea Party. Our politics
have been entirely fake for decades, manufactured and controlled using
government money. These efforts to repeat what worked in the past affirm
it. Our politics for the last several decades have been pretty close to
the opposite of what was beamed to us. “Our democracy” was absolute
party control.

All ideologies rely on lies to fill the gap between their vision of the
moral society and the reality of the human condition. This habit
explains the violence that comes when the ideologues gain control. The
lies are replaced by a program to fill the gap between ideology and
reality. That gap is always filled with corpses, but it is never
completely filled, so the lies return as the cost-effective option. In
time, they become so comfortable with the lies that lying is the
solution to everything.

We are seeing this in the “resistance” being rolled out in the media. It
is not connected with reality but dreamed up by the same people who
claimed they were defending democracy when they were harassing people
for Facebook posts. The same narrative makers who swore all their failed
schemes were working right up until it was obvious that they were not
working are now busy imagining a scenario in which they are carried back
to power on the shoulders of the people.

Things like the opposite rule are part of the essential appeal of
ideology, which is an escape from reality. This is what ideology
inherits from Christianity. The losers drawn to the new religion
spreading around the Roman Empire were attracted to the promise of
escape from this life. If they followed this new religion, they would
one day stand shoulder to shoulder with the great men of this age in the
sight of God. Ideology says the same thing but stops at the bit about
God.

Libertarians imagine that one day they will be yeoman farmers, totally
self-sufficient and liberated like the rich guys they admire. The
antifascist imagines herself as a stunning and brave member of the
committee, as respected as the men who never pay much attention to her.
The conservative believes he will one day be rich like Donald Trump, but
classy like Bill Buckley. The fascist imagines himself in a snappy
uniform in charge of men, instead of a loser playing video games all
day.

This is what brings us back to the opposite rule of liberalism. The last
ideology, like all ideology, requires the suspension of disbelief.
Accusing the bad guys of doing what you have done or are currently doing
is a way to escape the reality of politics. It is not a fight for power,
but a great crusade between white hats and black hats. To think
otherwise is to be back in the reality from which you are trying to
escape. The “resistance” to Trump are not losers, but the heroes of a
story they are now writing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
