---
title: "A Do Nothing President"
date: "2025-01-14T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-01-14T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Foreign Affairs
  - Politics
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33418"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33418"
---

**Note:** Over the weekend the SSL certificate for the site was supposed
to renew, but something went wrong and it did not renew. This is why
your browser got angry when you tried to access the site. H1B strikes
again!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

On Monday, Trump will be installed as president, so naturally everyone
is speculating about what he will do once he gets the keys to the White
House. Interestingly, much of the speculation is around the foreign
policy issues he inherits. The neocons in the media are working hard to
keep Ukraine in the news, so they are making claims about what Trump
will and will not do with Putin. The Israel lobby wants Israel to be
number one, so they are focusing on Iran.

What does not get noticed is Trump was elected on domestic issues. In
the last election, Israel and Ukraine were far down the list for all
voters. The number one issue was the economy. Immigration was the next
big issue. The typical Trump voter looks at Ukraine as a boondoggle and
Israel as an unsolvable problem. Logically, these two issues should be
far down the list for Trump, but the media is focusing on them, which
speaks to the power of their respective lobbies.

The first hint of what Trump has in mind for Ukraine came last month
when Trump’s personal envoy to Ukraine and Russia said that it will take
one hundred days to get a deal with Russia over Ukraine. This was a big
shift from prior claims about Trump ending the war in a few days.
Kellogg has also shifted with regards to what is happening in the war.
The business about there being a stalemate has been dropped in favor of
an acknowledgment that Ukraine is in trouble.

What the “one hundred days” tells us is Trump is not going to litter his
first one hundred days with the Ukraine matter. It is a custom to assume
that the first one hundred days of a new administration set the tone, so
it is not an accident that Kellogg was suddenly using that phrasing. It
is a signal that the Ukraine matter is not in the list of items that
will take up the president’s time starting in January. To whom it was a
signal is not all that clear and whether they understood it is unknown.

Time is the way to think about what Trump is planning for his second
term. He has just one term and that means he has about eighteen months
to get his domestic agenda pushed through Congress and the
administrative state. Once we get to the summer of 2026 his party will
be busy throwing the midterms. This means they will not pass anything
the people want but instead focus on angering the base. After the
election, Trump will get nothing from Congress.

This is a lesson Trump learned the hard way the first time. Once he won
the election, he was swept up in a series of events that forced him to
use his time in ways that had no benefit to him. He became the salesman
wasting his days tending to customer service issues, rather than finding
and closing new business. The number one skill for a salesman is time
management. If you fail to manage your time, you fail. This is true for
presidents, especially reformers like Trump.

It is why the signs point to Trump being something of a do-nothing
president with regards to foreign policy issues. With Ukraine, he can do
nothing, and it will resolve itself, as far as Trump is concerned. He
inherited an unsalvageable mess from Biden, so no deal is better than
any deal. Spending any time on it is a waste, so the one hundred days
will probably turn into forever. The post-war deal with Russia will be
left to the governments of Europe and the EU.

As for Israel, the signs are there for a delaying action. Kellogg was
asked about it and reiterated the usual lines about pressuring Iran to
abandon its nuclear program, which they largely did long ago. Michael
Waltz, the new national security adviser, seems to get his opinions on
Iran from Fox News. One suspects that he was picked because he will do
what the boss says. Despite talk of new sanctions, Trump remains opposed
to a war with Iran, or an Israeli war with Iran.

Another signal that the Middle East may be down there with Ukraine on
the priority list is the fact Trump has signaled his disdain for
Netanyahu. He was not invited to the inaugural and Trump has tweeted
some untoward things about him. He also <a
href="https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2025/jan/08/trump-video-crude-reference-netanyahu"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">posted</a> a link to Jeffrey Sachs
calling Netanyahu a “deep, dark son of a bitch”, which is not the sort
of thing you say about your friends. Trump has also been clear about
wanting out of Syria, especially now that it is in chaos.

What may be shaping up for the first half of the Trump term is a policy
of doing nothing with regards to the foreign policy hotspots. Trump and
his advisors can answer questions and make the usual noises, but when it
comes to investing time, the scarcest commodity Trump possesses, the
administration will be stingy. These issues will get the absolute
minimum amount of time and only so that they do not become a time waster
for the domestic agenda.

It is looking like Trump learned that the most important card any
president can play in politics is his attention. There is not much
anyone can do if Trump simply de-prioritizes Ukraine, for example. “We
are looking into it” works just as well against the schemers behind
things like Ukraine as it does his own voters. Perhaps this time,
instead of saying this regarding domestic issues, Trump will be saying
it regarding foreign policy, to focus on the issues that matter to him.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you like my work and wish to donate, you can
<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/mujolulu" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">buy me a beer</a>. You can sign up for a
<a href="https://www.subscribestar.com/the-z-blog" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">SubscribeStar</a> or a
<a href="https://thedissident.substack.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Substack</a> subscription and get some extra content.
You can donate via <a
href="https://www.paypal.com/donate/?cmd=_s-xclick&amp;hosted_button_id=UDAS2Q8JYA6CN&amp;source=url"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">PayPal</a>. My crypto addresses are
<a href="https://thezman.com/wordpress/?page_id=22713" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">here</a> for those who prefer that option. You can send
gold bars through the postal service to: Z Media LLC P.O. Box 1047
Berkeley Springs, WV 25411-3047. Thank you for your support!

------------------------------------------------------------------------
