---
title: "Radio Derb March 21 2025"
date: "2025-03-21T00:00:00"
lastmod: "2025-03-21T00:00:00"
categories:
  - Podcasts
params:
  original_slug: "?p=33790"
  original_url: "https://thezman.com/wordpress/?p=33790"
---

<img
src="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg"
class="alignnone size-full wp-image-32474" decoding="async"
sizes="(max-width: 789px) 100vw, 789px"
srcset="https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner.jpg 789w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-300x96.jpg 300w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-768x246.jpg 768w, https://thezman.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Banner-500x160.jpg 500w"
width="789" height="253" />

**<u>This Week’s Show</u>**

**<u>Contents</u>**

-   02m19s Foreigners behaving badly
-   09m28s Our anti-Trump judiciary
-   17m36s The shock troops of lawfare
-   25m38s Separation of powers 2025
-   34m02s The genocidal St. Patrick
-   36m01s YouTube kowtowing?
-   38m05s TDS and MIM
-   39m40s Signoff  with Gracie

<a href="https://api.spreaker.com/v2/episodes/65023829/download.mp3"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Direct Download</a>,
<a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/radio-derb/id1762307219"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">The iTunes</a>,
<a href="https://podcastaddict.com/podcast/radio-derb/5262849"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">Podcast Addict</a>,
<a href="https://www.spreaker.com/show/6260375/episodes/feed"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">RSS Feed</a>

**<u>Full Show On Spreaker</u>**

**<u>Full Show On Rumble</u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Full Show On Odysee </u>**

<span class="mce_SELRES_start" mce-type="bookmark"
style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;">﻿</span>

**<u>Transcript</u>**

**01 — Intro**.     And Radio Derb is on the air! That was a fragment of
Joseph Haydn’s *Derbyshire March No. 2* played on, of course, the piano;
and this is your contritely genial host John Derbyshire with
commentaries on the week’s news.

Before I commence commenting, just a short housekeeping note. I have
been remiss in keeping my personal website properly tended.

If you go to [the home page at
johnderbyshire.com](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/) you will see in the
“Navigation” box over at the right-hand side there an entry for
“Recently published.” Clicking on that will send you to a page listing
everything I have published, in print or online, for [the past three
months](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Recent/page.html), with links to
the individual publications.

That “Recently published” page relies on me adding items to it as I
publish them — or, in the case of most *print* items, after a decent
interval to let the print outlet get printed, distributed, purchased,
and read.

I have been forgetting to do that, so that the “Recently published” page
has been getting out of date. Some readers rely on it for access to my
output, and they’ve been grumbling.

I am sorry. I shall strive to do better. The “Recently published”
page *is* now up to date.<span id="more-33790"></span>

**02 — Foreigners behaving badly**.     We — our federal government —
have been having trouble with foreigners.

Exhibit A; Thirty-year-old Mahmoud Khalil, a Syrian who came here in
2022 on a student visa to attend Columbia University in New York City.
The following year, 2023, he married a U.S. citizen, the daughter of
immigrants from Syria. They are expecting a baby next month. Last year,
2024, Khalil was granted a Green Card for resident alien status.

After the Hamas attack on Israel in October 2023 Khalil became a busy
activist in the pro-Hamas, anti-Israel student demonstrations at
Columbia. March 8th he was arrested at Columbia under the 1952
Immigration and Nationality Act, which lets the feds remove a foreigner
whose presence they think is a national security threat.

That’s the outline of the Khalil story. There are some unknowns, though,
and stuff in Khalil’s background that we only partly know. He apparently
has *Algerian* citizenship, but nobody knows how he acquired it. Living
in Beirut in the years prior to 2022, he worked for either the British
Foreign Office or just for the British Embassy, it’s not clear.

He was also employed in some capacity by UNRWA, the United Nations
agency for Palestinian refugees. UNRWA has been sued umpteen times over,
and still is being sued, for [helping to fund
Hamas](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/06/24/nyregion/hamas-gaza-aid-unrwa-lawsuit.html).

In less than a week following Khalil’s arrest nineteen lawyers had
signed up to defend him and funds were pouring in to pay for them. The
head of the defense team is another Syrian immigrant, [a law professor
at City University
here](https://pdsoros.org/fellows/ramzi-kassem/) whose legal studies
were financed by a Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship. Yes: that’s “Soros”
spelled “S-O-R-O-S.”

So there is stuff in the background that we don’t know as well as we
might like to. As I’m speaking here, Khalil is being held at an
immigration detention facility in Louisiana after a federal judge from
New York Southern District blocked his deportation pending judicial
review. He’s whining to the media that he’s a “political prisoner,” but
that’s nonsense: he’s free to leave the country any time he wants to.

Exhibit B is the 250 or so Venezuelan and Salvadoran gangbangers
deported last Saturday to El Salvador in defiance of a hold order from a
different federal judge, this one from the Washington, D.C. District.

This deportation was made under the 1798 Alien Enemies Act, which gives
our government authority to deport foreigners who are dangerous to the
public peace or safety of the United States. The deportees are now
residents at CECOT, El Salvador’s famously strict Terrorism Confinement
Center.

That Washington, D.C. judge who tried to stop the deportations is not
pleased. He’s demanding that Trump’s Justice Department provide full,
detailed documentation on how the deportations were conducted,
presumably so that one or more of Trump’s people can be charged with
contempt, or Trump himself impeached.

Exhibit C:  And I just saw that yesterday, Thursday afternoon,
yet *another* federal judge, a Biden appointee working Virginia’s
Eastern District, has [blocked the
deportation](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5206329-judge-georgetown-suri-trump-immigration-crackdown-deportation-palestinians/) of
Badar Khan Suri, an Indian national here on a student visa. Suri, like
Khalil, is married to a U.S. citizen of Palestinian origins. Both
husband and wife have been active in support of Arab terrorism. The
wife’s father, [according to an Indian
newspaper](https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/beyond-borders-gaza-to-delhi-an-indo-palestinian-love-story/story-rFjMohw299uLp9hSFrd65N.html),
served as a senior political adviser to the Hamas leadership.

I’m no kind of legal scholar, but some things are basic common sense.
Here’s one of those things.

If a foreigner living in my country is making a nuisance of himself to
citizens, by engaging in gang activity or by helping to organize events
that seriously disrupt learning in institutions of higher education, I
want that foreigner expelled and banned from returning. If he’s married
to a U.S. citizen they must decide between themselves whether the spouse
will remain here — as of course she has every right to, as a citizen —
or go to his country with him.

As I said, basic common sense: so basic that I believe some such opinion
must have been prevalent in every nation for as long as nations have
existed.

**03 — Our anti-Trump judiciary**.

Those stories I just told are only three skirmishes in the new style of
anti-Trump lawfare being waged by the ruling class through the federal
judiciary. Here are some more, not related to the issue of misbehaving
foreigners.

Exhibit D:  Tuesday this week another federal district judge — also from
Washington, D.C. — [blocked Trump’s executive
order](https://www.nbcnews.com/nbc-out/out-politics-and-policy/trump-transgender-military-ban-rcna194741) banning
transgender people from enlisting or serving in the U.S. military.

Exhibit E:  Yet another federal judge, this one from the Maryland
District, [ordered Elon Musk to stop
dismantling](https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/5201430-judge-elon-musk-usaid/) the
sleazy USAID money racket and restore email and computer access to USAID
employees.

Exhibit F:  Thursday, yet *another* federal judge, also from the
Maryland District, [blocked Elon Musk’s Department of Government
Efficiency](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2025/mar/20/musk-doge-social-security) from
accessing social security records as part of its hunt for fraud and
waste.

This judge granted a temporary restraining order to prevent staff at the
Social Security Administration from giving DOGE access to records that
contain personally identifiable information.

Exhibit G:  Exhibit G has not actually materialized yet, but it’s
totally predictable.

Thursday the President signed an executive order that he said
would, [quote](https://www.nytimes.com/live/2025/03/20/us/trump-education-news),
“begin eliminating the federal Department of Education once and for
all,” end quote. Eliminationg the DOE was one of Trump’s campaign
promises last year.

The Department of Education can’t actually be closed without the
approval of Congress; but a great many of its functions *can* be
lawfully eliminated, yielding major savings.

It was the Jimmy Carter administration that gave us the Department of
Education back in 1979. It had been one of *Carter’s* promises in his
campaign for the Presidency, to get the teachers’ unions on his side.

(Allow me just a brief aside. The *political* power of the teachers’
unions — their power in organizing voting blocs and funding campaigns —
is immense. In 2003 Peter Brimelow wrote a very good book about
this, [*The Worm in the
Apple*](https://www.amazon.com/Worm-Apple-Destroying-American-Education/dp/0060096616/ref=sr_1_1).
It’s the same in Britain. One of the first pieces of advice I got when I
started writing opinion pieces for British outlets in the early 1980s
was this, from a seasoned old Fleet Street veteran, quote: “You can
write what you like about the government, the Prime Minister, the Royal
Family, the Church, the Pope, the IRA, … write what you like. There’ll
be a few angry letters to the editor, that’s all. If you criticize the
teachers’ unions, though, you’ll be needing one of those mirrors on a
long handle to check for bombs under your car.” End quote. End of brief
aside.)

So yes, the Department of Education. In the 46 years since it was
created the Department has, according to President
Trump, [quote](https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-14517487/Trump-downsize-federal-department-executive-order.html),
“spent over $3 trillion without improving student achievement as
measured by standardized National Assessment of Educational Progress
(NAEP) scores.” End quote.

I haven’t checked that number but it’s easy to believe. In my
paradigm-shattering 2009 bestseller [*We Are
Doomed*](https://www.amazon.com/Are-Doomed-Reclaiming-Conservative-Pessimism/dp/0307409597/ref=sr_1_1) I
had a whole chapter on education, Chapter Six. That chapter included a
three-page section on the experiment conducted forty years ago in Kansas
City, Missouri.

What happened, in very brief, was that after long litigation in the
years up to 1985, a federal judge ordered the Kansas City school system
and the state of Missouri to dramatically raise their spending. Quote
from *We Are Doomed*:

Over the next twelve years the district spent over *two billion
dollars*, most of it from the state of Missouri, the balance from
increased local property taxes. Fifteen new schools were built and 54
others renovated.

End quote.

I went on to describe some of the expensive wonders that were added to
the Kansas City school system: olympic-size swimming pools, and so on.
After all that I tell my reader that, quote:

The whole project was a comprehensive failure. After twelve years, test
scores in reading and math had *declined*, dropout rates
had *increased*, and the system was as segregated as ever, in spite of
heroic efforts to lure white students back into the system.

End quote.

There have been similar attempts elsewhere, inspired by orders from
federal judges, to raise educational achievement by spending public
money. They have similarly failed. That the Department of Education has
spent three trillion dollars over half a century with the same result
is, as I said, very easy to believe.

I am none the less certain that following Thursday’s executive order
from Trump, federal district court judges will very soon swing into
action with injunctions to block any reduction in Department of
Education spending or staffing. Exhibit G will then be a reality.

**04 — The shock troops of lawfare**.     In these assaults on the
President’s orders by federal district judges, it’s not hard to see the
spirit of lawfare. Our nation’s ruling class are determined that there
not be a successful Trump Presidency. They have declared war, and the
federal judiciary is the vanguard of their army, their shock troops.

The guiding principle of lawfare is: “The process is the punishment.”
Might some of those judicial blockings and annulments I’ve been talking
about get overturned on appeal? Yes, they might: but how long does the
appeal process take? While it lumbers on the President’s orders can’t be
executed and elections approach.

The prospects for eventual overturning may anyway not be bright. Appeals
end up at last in the U.S. Supreme Court.

One of them *did* end up before SCOTUS two weeks ago. This is in the
context of Trump’s efforts to shut down USAID. One of the federal judges
involved there had ordered the administration to unfreeze $2 billion of
so-called “foreign aid.”

Most of that money will, if unfrozen and distributed, end up in the
Swiss bank accounts of Third World corruptocrats, or being spent by
Hamas and Hezbollah to feed and arm their troops and dig their tunnels;
but this judge — his name is [Amir
Ali](https://www.dcd.uscourts.gov/content/district-judge-amir-h-ali) and
his district is, guess what, Washington, D.C. — this judge insisted it
be unfrozen.

Trump’s people directly petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court to rebuke
Judge Ali. The Supremes put the judge’s order on hold while they
pondered the case. Having done so, on March 5th they ruled against the
administration, so Judge Ali’s unfreezing of that $2 billion has taken
effect — a loss for the administration, not to mention the American
taxpayer, but a mighty gain for worldwide corruption and chaos.

The Supreme Court ruling against Trump there was five to four, the five
being: Elena Kagan, Sonia Sotomayor, and Ketanji Brown Jackson of
course, plus Amy Coney Barrett (who I think at this point we can
actually put in the “of course” column), and — whoops! — Chief Justice
John Roberts. So much for the conservative court supposedly gifted to us
by Trump 45.

Of the district court judges I have mentioned so far, you probably
noticed that three out of the seven sit for the Washington, D.C.
district. The other four are for New York South, Maryland, Maryland, and
Virginia East.

Where general political orientation is concerned, those locations speak
for themselves. If not precisely *in* Washington, D.C., they are in easy
commuting range of our nation’s capital. I notice also, browsing [the
maps](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/RadioDerb/Extras/EasternVA.jpg),
that they contain counties that regularly show up in lists of the
U.S.A.’s wealthiest.

These districts are populated by the Government People. They are as blue
as it’s possible to be: not merely [cerulean
blue](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/Diaries/2023-07.html#01),
they
are [ultramarine](https://shop.kremerpigments.com/us/shop/pigments/45000-ultramarine-blue-very-dark.html).

And if the districts are blue, the judges themselves aren’t exactly
Johnny Appleseed. I’ve already mentioned Judge Amir Ali in the USAID
matter. Judge [Patricia Tolliver
Giles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patricia_Tolliver_Giles), in the
case of deporting an Indian, is a black female, while Judge [Ana
Reyes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ana_C._Reyes) in the transgender
case is a Hispanic female.

I’d supposed, based on his names —his middle name is “Emanuel” — that
Judge James Boasberg, who tried to stop those deportations to El
Salvador, is Jewish, and so is in the regrettable old line of
Jewish-American left-liberalism. However, he’s not included in
Wikipedia’s “[List of Jewish American
Jurists](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Jewish_American_jurists),”
so I don’t know.

It does seem, though, that [his
wife](https://x.com/amuse/status/1901992280128356697), [his
sister](https://www.influencewatch.org/non-profit/bierly-boasberg-foundation/),
and [his
daughter](https://x.com/LauraLoomer/status/1901828312869347636) are all
very active in leftist causes and the NGO money rackets.

So I’m ready to hazard a guess, without researching further, I’m ready
to go out on a limb and say that Judge Boasberg is *not* a Trump voter
and nor are any of his family or friends.

Yes: in the war to destroy the Trump Presidency, the federal judiciary
is the vanguard, the elite troops at the front of the advance.

They’ve been bold in assault. At her presser on Wednesday, Trump’s Press
Secretary [Karoline Leavitt told
us](https://x.com/charliekirk11/status/1902426510713352663) that 67
percent of all injunctions against a President issued this century have
been against Trump, with 92 percent of the judges issuing appointed by
Democrats. There’s been some questioning of her numbers, but they sound
plausible to me.

Wait, though. There are only a few hundred of these district court
judges. They can’t win the war all by themselves, surely. Who are the
bulk of the anti-Trump army — the squaddies, the doughboys, the cannon
fodder? Next segment.

**05 — Separation of powers 2025**.     Reading up for [our
naturalization
interview](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Opinions/NationalQuestion/insinterview.html),
we immigrants all learn about the Separation of Powers, a fundamental
principle in the American system of government.

There are three of those powers, we learn. The Legislative Branch makes
laws, the Executive Branch enforces the laws, the Judicial Branch
interprets the laws. Right?

*Yes, Mr Derbyshire, absolutely right. If you just take a seat outside
I’ll print up your appointment letter for the oath ceremony.
Congratulations! You’ll be an American!*

I held to that simple truth for twenty-three years, until reading the
March issue of *Harper’s Magazine* the other day. That issue includes an
essay by Andrew Cockburn, the Washington, D.C. editor of *Harper’s*.

I can’t say I’ve read much of Cockburn’s output. He is, like me, a
septuagenarian British immigrant, but [he’s published way more
books](https://www.amazon.com/stores/author/B00WREHW8K/about?ccs_id=6208927a-3a72-4983-bc55-99637c5cab7d) than
I have. When I’ve thought of him at all it’s been as the son of offbeat
journalist Claud Cockburn, whose name murmured in the background when I
was growing up in Britain.

Cockburn Senior was not taken very seriously by serious people, so far
as I could see. He was an open card-carrying member of the Communist
Party. His pro-Stalin mis-reporting in the Spanish Civil War enraged
George Orwell. I had vaguely supposed, the way a lazy mind does when not
directly engaged, that his son Andrew Cockburn was a twig off the same
ugly tree.

Whether that’s the case or not I still don’t know; but a stopped clock
is right twice a day, we must always make allowances. This column in the
March *Harper’s* is first-rate. Title: [Rage Against the
Machine](https://harpers.org/archive/2025/03/rage-against-the-machine-andrew-cockburn-trump-bureaucracy/).
Subtitle: “Trump’s second attempt at dismantling the bureaucracy.” It’s
a long piece — more than four thousand words — but well worth the
trouble of reading if you don’t mind some brief lapses into
kill-the-rich old-style leftism.

What does it have to do with the Separation of Powers? Just that it left
me convinced that there are not three powers, but four. In addition to
the Legislative, Executive, and Judicial, there is the Bureaucratic
Power, and it may be mightier than them all.

Can Trump triumph over that power? Cockburn notes that the war against
bureaucracy isn’t at all a new thing, and he runs through some
depressing history. Reagan? Quote:

In office, Reagan duly set up a commission to root out waste and
inefficiency. But the national debt almost tripled during his two terms,
while the federal workforce expanded by more than three hundred thousand
employees.

End quote.

Bill Clinton, you may remember, announced that, quote, “the era of big
government is over,” end quote. No, it wasn’t.

Even Obama fired off a few shots. Another quote from Cockburn’s piece,
quote:

In 2012, Barack Obama announced an ambitious plan to merge six federal
economic departments and replace the Department of Commerce, all in the
interest of an “effective, lean government,” but the scheme died out.

End quote.

All those precedents notwithstanding, Cockburn suggests Trump might have
a chance. Quote:

Among Trump’s principal targets is the so-called administrative state,
meaning the power of federal agencies to interpret legislation,
essentially giving them lawmaking powers. Thanks to a recent decision by
the Supreme Court that struck down essential features of
the *Chevron* doctrine (the outcome of a 1984 Supreme Court decision
upholding the legitimacy of delegating policy interpretation to
government agencies), the new administration could have a potent weapon
in pursuit of this goal. Instead of agencies such as the Department of
Health and Human Services or the Environmental Protection Agency having
the power to determine how laws are enacted, such authority will now be
in the hands of the courts.

End quote.

Hm, well. That authority is only any use if the courts are on Trump’s
side — which, as I have been explaining, is not the case.

And Cockburn’s final conclusion is pessimistic. He identifies a fifth
power, or at any rate a four-and-a-halfth power: what he calls “the
contractor state,” quote: “all those, led by the giant defense
contractors, who are dependent on government spending.” End quote. An
estimated four out of every ten people working full-time for the
government are not federal employees, Cockburn tells us.

I think I detect Cockburn Senior’s Leninism showing through when Junior
talks about the contractor state. Quote:

The most tangible result of Trump’s depredations will likely be the
further enrichment of his ultra-wealthy supporters.

End quote.

So we’re back to Kill the Rich. All right: Andrew Cockburn’s no more a
likely Trump voter than Judge Boasberg is. It’s a good engaging essay
he’s written, though, and I recommend it to your attention.

**06 — Miscellany**.     And now, our closing miscellany of brief items.

*Imprimis*:  Last week I had some comments distantly related to St.
Patrick’s Day, which was of course Monday the 17th.

There were St. Patrick’s Day marches and celebrations all over, of
course, but also … demonstrations *against* the saint.

Here was one in Toronto: a crowd of fat ugly women wearing those
checkered dish towels that signify allegiance to Arab terrorism …

Wait a minute: “a crowd”? We really need a new collective noun there. “A
kennel,” perhaps? All suggestions gratefully received.

Sorry. Back to Toronto. So there were these bowsers out in the street in
Toronto wearing their dish towels, howling that St. Patrick was a mass
murderer. [Actual
quote](https://x.com/OliLondonTV/status/1901526880106267088):

F\*\*k St Patrick. He’s a killer. He killed people. He got rid of
people. He genocided people.

End quote.

From my own engagements with the Irish, I think someone should warn
these ladies about saying things like that when Irishmen are nearby in
any numbers. *That* might lead to genocide, at any rate a small local
genocide. I’ve almost come to blows with Irish people just by telling
them St. Patrick was British, which is true.

*Item*:  How hard do I work at keeping up with events in China? Not very
hard at all, I confess. I do subscribe to [*The China
Journal*](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/toc/tcj/current), an
excellent scholarly publication from the University of Chicago Press.

And when my brain’s too tired for academic reading, as is increasingly
the case, I go to YouTube for the latest from my favorite commentators
on China there.

Who are *they*? They are:

1.  Winston Sterzel, a.k.a.
    “[Serpentza](https://www.youtube.com/serpentza).”
2.  Matthew Tye, a.k.a.
    “[Laowhy86](https://www.youtube.com/user/laowhy86).”
3.  Chris Chappell at [China
    Uncensored](https://www.youtube.com/@ChinaUncensored).

These three guys all know China really well and they can all put
together a good professional-quality video. None of them is a ChiCom
stooge; they are all China critics.

Someone at YouTube seems to have noticed. A few days ago the three
did [a joint
vidcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=owAeZONXXsg&t=687s) to tell us
that their viewerships — all three of them — had suffered a sudden and
serious collapse. “YouTube Doesn’t Want Us Talking About China” was the
title.

I haven’t made any attempt to get to the bottom of this — I wouldn’t
know how — but I’ll be watching with interest to see if Winston,
Matthew, and Chris have.

*Item*:  I’ve been a great admirer of Elon Musk since reading [the
biography of him by Walter
Isaacson](https://www.amazon.com/Elon-Musk-Walter-Isaacson/dp/1982181281/ref=sr_1_1).
He’s super smart, engagingly witty, thoughtfully self-critical, and
supernaturally energetic.

It’s that last one, I believe, that really separates the achievers like
Musk from idlers and bumblers like me. I wish Elon all the luck in the
world at countering the [legions of morons and
zealots](https://x.com/ElizabethForNV/status/1902019590080827523) who’ve
suddenly decided he is Public Enemy Number One.

I was going to try coming up with a nifty abbreviation for all this
anti-Musk lunacy, something similar to “Trump Derangement Syndrome,” but
Scott Jennings has beat me to it with “[Musk-Induced
Madness](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bL_BexduVxY).”

The mathematician in me, though, can’t help wondering what the [Venn
Diagram](https://www.cuemath.com/algebra/venn-diagram/) looks like, or
if there even *is* one. Are there TDS sufferers who are *not* also
afflicted with MIM? Are there *vice versa*? I’d really like to know.

**07 — Signoff**.     That’s all I have, ladies and gents. Thank you for
listening or reading. I’m going to remind you, as I always do, that you
can support the VDARE Foundation by subscribing to [Peter Brimelow’s
Substack account](https://www.peterbrimelow.com/).

And having mentioned the boss’s name twice in this podcast, let me draw
your attention to Peter’s plaintive post at X
yesterday, [tweet](https://x.com/peterbrimelow/status/1902729076051198053):

How come a dozen judges can rush to interdict Trump while VDARE couldn’t
find one judge to stop NY AG Letitia James wrecking its 1A rights with
an “investigation” costing $1MM and counting, although not charging, let
alone convicting it, of anything?

End tweet.

How, indeed? A thoroughly politicized judiciary? Oh yeah.

You can also of course write a check to the VDARE Foundation itself at
P.O. Box 211, Litchfield-with-a-“t”, CT 06759; and you can support me
personally by earmarking that check with my name, or by any of the other
options spelled out [on my personal
website](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/#introduction). *And*, as you
will see from my flawlessly up-to-date “[Recently
published](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/Recent/page.html)” page, you
can also support me indirectly by subscribing
to [*Chronicles* magazine](https://www.johnderbyshire.com/chroniclesmagazine.org/).
Thank you!

There will be more from Radio Derb next week. Here’s Gracie to sing us
out.
